http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/yal.00098.html, Letter from Walt Whitman to Thayer & Eldridge,"lat 0, 1860",0.0," ...are already getting to be pretty numerous and outspoken     Walt Whitman  Sometimes I think it would be better still to make a compact and finished Vol. of the whole issue of ""Leaves of Grass,"" including the former ones with the new ones, for they are all of a uniform pattern.   This would afford a splendid living American Vol. that would go like the devil through the West, and among the young men everywhere.     "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/prc.00002.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to the Editors of Harper 's Magazine ,","Jan 7, 1860",0.000951992384061," The theory of ""A Chant of National Feuillage""2 is to bring in, (devoting a line, or two or three lines, to each,) a comprehensive collection of touches, localés, incidents, idiomatic scenes, from every section, South, West, North, East, Kanada, Texas, Maine, Virginia, the Mississippi Valley, &c. &c. &c.   all intensely fused to the urgency of compact America, ""America always""   all in a vein of graphic, short, clear, hasting along   as having a huge bouquet to collect, and quickly taking and binding in every characteristic subject that offers itself   making a compact, the-whole-surrounding, National Poem, after its sort, after my own style. Is there any other poem of the sort extant   or indeed hitherto attempted? You may start at the style. Yes, it is a new style, of course, but that is necessitated by new theories, new themes   or say the new treatment of themes, forced upon us for American purposes. Every really new person, (poet or other,) makes his style   sometimes a little way removed from the previous models   sometimes very far removed. Furthermore, I have surely attained headway enough with the American public, especially with the literary classes, to make it worth your while to give them a sight of me with all my neologism. The price is $40. Cash down on acceptance. I reserve the use of the piece in any collection of my poems I may publish in future. Should my name be printed in the programme of contributors at any time it must not be lower down than third in the list. If the piece is declined, please keep the MS. for me to be called for. Will send, or call, last of next week. Walt WhitmanJan. 7th, '60. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00755.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to the Editor of the New York Sunday Courier ,","Jan 16, 1860",0.00217598259214," The price of the ""Thoughts""2 is $10. I reserve the right of using it in any future edition of my poems. I suggest, if accepted, it be placed at the top of the 2d, 3d, or 4th column, first page. If declined, please keep the MS. till I call. I will call Wednesday morning. Walt WhitmanJan. 16, '60. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/uva.00342.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to James Russell Lowell ,","Jan 20, 1860",0.00271997824017,"  Jan. 20, '60. Dear Sir,1 Mr. House2 inform'd me that you accepted, and would publish, my ""Bardic Symbols.""3 If so, would you, as soon as convenient, have it put in type, and send me the proof? About the two lines:   (See from my dead lips the ooze exuding at last! See the prismatic colors glistening and rolling!)   I have in view, from them, an effect in the piece which I clearly feel, but cannot as clearly define. Though I should prefer them in, still, as I told Mr. House, I agree that you may omit them, if you decidedly wish to. Yours &c Walt WhitmanPortland av. near Myrtle | Brooklyn, N. Y. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00560.html," Letter from Thayer & Eldridge to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 10, 1860",0.00557595539236,"  Boston, Feb 10/60 Walt Whitman  Dr Sir. We want to be the publishers of Walt. Whitman's Poems   Leaves of Grass.   When the book was first issued we were clerks in the establishment we now own.2  We read the book with profit and pleasure. It is a true poem and writ by a true man. When a man dares to speak his thought in this day of refinement   so called   it is difficult to find his mates to act amen to it. Now we want to be known as the publishers of Walt. Whitman's books, and put our name as such under his, on title pages.   If you will allow it we can and will put your books into good form, and style attractive to the eye; we can and will sell a large number of copies; we have great facilities by and through numberless Agents in selling. We can dispose of more books than most publishing houses (we do not ""puff"" here but speak truth). We are young men. We ""celebrate"" ourselves by acts. Try us. You can do us good. We can do you good   pecuniarily. Now Sir, if you wish to make acquaintance with us, and accept us as your publishers, we will offer to either buy the stereotype plates of Leaves of Grass, or pay you for the use of them, in addition to regular copyright. Are you writing other poems? Are they ready for the press? Will you let us read them? Will you write us? Please give us your residence   Yours Fraternally  Thayer & Eldridge.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00561.html," Letter from Thayer & Eldridge to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 27, 1860",0.0078879368965,"  Boston Feb 27 1860  Walt Whitman Dear Sir, Your letter of the 25th is at hand. We are ready to commence on your work at once and have it got up with all possible speed.  The terms which we would propose are 10 percent of the retail price for your copyright. This is the usual allowance to authors, on works of merit. The most important point to be settled at first is the form in which the Poems shall appear. Do you prefer the 18 mo size such as your last volume or will you have it in a 12 mo volume?   or in Two 12 mo volumes, ?  How do you like the 32 mo blue & gold style inaugurated by Ticknor & Fields, in which they have published most of the modern English Poets such as Tennyson, etc?2 We invite an early reply on this point, and also say if you accept the terms   10 percent on all copies sold.  ONE of us will be in New York in a week or ten days and will call and see you, but that need not prevent negociations being continued by mail   until we have a personal interview.  Yours Truly  Thayer & Eldridge  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00562.html," Letter from Thayer & Eldridge to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 2, 1860",0.00843193254454,"  Boston March 2, 1860 Walt Whitman  Dear Sir, Your favor is at hand.  Our Mr. Thayer will be in New York tomorrow and call on you either Saturday or Sunday.  He will stop at the Astor.  We think favorably of the propositions in your letters, but owing to a press of other business next week we should not be able to give that personal attention to the matter which we should desire, and we have one or two other works in the stereotypes hands, which can be finished next week and which we should like to have out of the way before commencing on anything new.  We can make our arrangement, so that we shall be comparatively untrammeled week after next, and if agreeable to you should like to have you defer your visit until then.  The form and style of the Poems is a matter only to be decided on after a free and full personal conference, discussing the whole thing thoroughly   Yours Truly  Thayer & Eldridge  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/prc.00003.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to the Editor of the Atlantic Monthly ,","Mar 2, 1860",0.00843193254454,"  Friday morning, March 2, '60. Your ""Atlantic"" has, either in type or MS. an article of mine, sent on by E. H. House1, and accepted by Mr. Lowell2   price $40. In lieu of that sum when the piece is printed, could you enclose me $30 immediately on receiving this, and send by mail   considering this a receipt in full? Walt WhitmanPortland av. next to Myrtle | Brooklyn, N. Y. You will first inquire of Mr. L. about the article, lest I am entertaining some misunderstanding about it.3 "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/med.00319.html," Letter from Ticknor & Fields , for The Atlantic Monthly , to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 6, 1860",0.00897592819257,"  OFFICE OF THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY BOSTON, March 6, 1860.  MR. WALT WHITMAN    Sir. We enclose our check for thirty dollars finding your note to be quite correct.  Yours truly, Ticknor & Fields  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00563.html," Letter from Thayer & Eldridge to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 7, 1860",0.00911192710458,"  Boston March 7, 1860  Walt Whitman Brooklyn, N.Y. Dear Sir When we wrote you last week that our Mr. Thayer would be in NYork on Saturday and see you, he was in another section of Country and anticipated being in York without fail on the day we stated, on his way home, but circumstances have prevented his coming that way at all. We would therefore say that we will agree to give you the amount you wish per week for four or five weeks, and shall expect to see you at our place on Monday or Tuesday of next week, when we shall be able to attend to your work & put it through   Yours Truly  Thayer & Eldridge  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00564.html," Letter from Thayer & Eldridge to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 9, 1860",0.0093839249286,"  Boston March 9/60 6 o'clock P.M.  Walt Whitman Dr Sir. Yours of Thursday morning rec'd this A.M.~ Your suggestions are pertinent to the business under consideration, all of which are most amply satisfactory. Your letter is such a capital one, that it has intensified our disappointment that our Mr. Thayer was not able to see you last Saturday or Sunday.  Business obliged him to return to Boston from the West, but he will leave here for New York Sunday night & will put up either at the Astor, Lovejoys or the hotel Corner Nassau & Beekman Streets. If he does not see you in the morning at above places, he will call at your house in the afternoon say at 3 o'clock. Our Mr. Eldridge will reply to your letter at length tomorrow afternoon mail.     Our thanks for your most excellent and practical letter.   Your Friends  Thayer & Eldridge  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00565.html," Letter from Fred Vaughan to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 19, 1860",0.0107439140487," Dear Walt, I am sorry I could not see you previous to your departure for Boston. I called in at Pfaffs two evenings in succession but did not find you on hand.2 I am quite anxious to hear about how matters are progressing with you. Write to me as soon as you can make it convenient. Care of Man- Ex Co. 140 Chamber St., New York. Every thing remains as usual in New York. I have seen the Atlantic for April.3 ""good, bully for you.""      Yours as Ever,  Fred  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00566.html," Letter from Charles Hine to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 21, 1860",0.0110159118727,"  New York March 21st 60.  My Dear Walt Through the stupidity of Lewis I did not receive the dispatch until late in the afternoon, but as the picture is yet unfinished you will understand why I do not send it spedily. 2I went directly to my frame makers, the frame will be done to-morrow, (it is a beauty) and if you wish I will send it in a few days. It is my wish it should be seen in Boston. Let me know how you propose to introduce it. It must be hung where the Fellows will see it,   you know what I mean. Let the light be an important thing, and dont allow any clap-trap surroundings. Let it be the thing wherever it is, at any price. I had intended as you are aware to put it in the Academy.   3  Tell me what you think. If I put it there I must enter it by the 31st   What shall I do? I wish to please you and feeling that you understand me I wait your pleasure. Write immediately for we have no time to loose    Most truly yours  Chas Hine Artist  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00567.html," Letter from Fred Vaughan to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 21, 1860",0.0110159118727,"   Your letter in answer to my note came to hand this a.m. I was glad to hear from you, Walt, and hope you will continue to write often while you stay in Boston. It will be a good way for you to pass some leisure time as I do not doubt you will have plenty of it on your hands. Walt, I am glad, very glad, you have got things fairly squared. I do not care so much about the style the book comes out in. I want to see it out and have no doubt the style, writing, etc. will be no disgrace to Boston. You know I have always had a very high opinion of the people of the City of Nations. I have not seen any of the folks up town, but they will undoubtedly be very glad of your success. You are well of in Boston this weather, Walt. I cannot see across the streets. The dust is moving in a dense mass through the streets as dust in no other city but NY can move.   It is actually sickening. I want you to look closely at the Municipal affairs of Boston, and comparing them with those of New York, give me the conclusion you arrive at regarding their respective good and bad qualities.    If you want to form the acquaintance of any Boston Stage men, get on one of those stages running to Charlestown Bridge, or Chelsea Ferry, & enquire for Charley Hollis or Ed Morgan, mention my name, and introduce yourself as my friend.   2  I am obliged to you for your kind offer of sending me a few of the sheets in advance of Publication, and hope you will not forget it.    Bob and I had quite a long walk together in Central Park late Sunday.3  We talked much of you, and in anticipation had some long strolls together in the Park this summer. It is a noble place, and Boston can no longer point exultingly to their common as the finest park in America. By the way, what do you think of the common?   I must go out, good bye,  Fred  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00568.html," Letter from Henry Clapp Jr. to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 27, 1860",0.0118319053448,"   My dear Walt: I am so busy that I hardly have time to breathe; moreover, I am in the greatest possible difficulties on account of one or two past liabilities still. This must explain my not answering your letter promptly. Do write and let me know about when the book is to be ready. I can do a great deal for it. I meant to have done more last week, but followed your advice and made a modest and copyable announcement. The papers all over the land have noticed your poem in the Atlantic and have generally pitched into it strong; which I take to be good for you and your new publishers, who if they move rapidly and concentrate their forces will make a Napoleonic thing of it.2 It just occurs to me that you might get Messrs. T. & E. to do a good thing for me: to wit, advance me say one hundred dollars on advertising account   that is if they mean to advertise with me.3 Or if they don't to let me act for them here as a kind of N.Y. agent to push the book, and advance me the money on that score. I must have one hundred dollars before Saturday night or be in a scrape the horror of which keeps me awake o' nights. I could if necessary give my note at three mos. for the amount and it is a good note since we have never been protested. Of course I know how extremely improbable it is that Messrs. T. & E. to whom I am an entire stranger will do anything of the kind: but in suggesting it, I have done only my duty to the Sat. Press, and, as I think, to the cause of sound literature.4   Yrs truly,  H. Clapp Jr.  I need not say, we are all anxious to see you back at Pfaff's,5 and are eagerly looking for your proposed letter to the crowd.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00569.html," Letter from Fred Vaughan to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 27, 1860",0.0118319053448,"   Walt, I received your kind letter the day after you mailed it, and immediately wrote you again. But finding some trouble in procuring a stamp, I sent it down to Frank Moran to have him mail it for me. It appears Frank was taken ill that day, and oblidged to go home; and has not been out of the house since. I did not find it out until today.   But of course my letter to you was not mailed, and now I have once more to reply to you.    I am glad you like Boston Walt, you know I have said much to you in praise both of the city and its people.   It is true the first is quite crooked, but it is generally clean, and the latter, though a little too straight-lace for such free thinkers as you and I are, a very hospitable, friendly lot of folks.   You tell me Mr. Emmerson2 (one m to many I guess?) came to see you and was very kind.   I heard him lecture in Fr. Chapins3 church on Friday evening last, on the subject of manners, and though very much pleased with the matter, I did not like his delivery. I appeared to me to be strained, and there was a certain hesitation in his speech and occasional repetition of words that did not affect the hearer very well.    But, Walt, when I looked upon the man, & thought that it was but a very few days before that he had been so kind and attentive to you, I assure you I did not think much of his bad delivery, but on the contrary, my heat4 warmed towards him very much. I think he has that in him which makes men capable of strong friendships.   This theme he also touched on, and said that a man whose heart was filled with a warm, ever enduring not to be shaken by anything Friendship was one to be set on one side apart from other men, and almost to be worshipped as a saint.   There Walt, how do you like that? What do you think of them setting you & myself, and one or two others we know up in some public place, with an immense placard on our breast, reading Sincere Freinds!!! Good doctrine that but I think the theory preferable to the practice.   I am glad very glad Walt to hear you are succeeding so well with your book.   I hope you will not forget the promise you made of sending me on some of the first proof sheets you have.   I am quite anxious to see them.    There is nothing new here, Walt. Everything remains about the same. I suppose of course you see the New York papers every day. Our streets are just about as dirty as ever, but the dirt is not allowed to remain long in one place, this March wind picks it up and scatters it with a perfect looseness in your eyes, ears, mouth, and nose. It penetrates to the house, covering the floor, the furniture and even the beds in a manner not at all agreeable to persons who have any idea of cleanliness.   Monumnets erected in mud to the honour of the street inspector have to be regularly wet down, or like riches, and birds they take to themselves wings and fly away.   I have an idea that ""There is a better time coming"" But so far have been unable to find any one who could satisfactorily fix the date. Robert is drinking tea, Mrs Cooper is moving around the room as usual ready to wait upon Bob even before he needs it.5 They both join me in wishes for the best success to you, and Mrs Cooper say if you will make love to her you had better do so personally the next time you call, as she cannot put much faith in a profession made in a letter to an outside party. Write me a good long letter Walt, as I am anxious to hear from you.   Yours,  Fred  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/pml.00011.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Abby H. Price ,","Mar 29, 1860",0.0121039031688,"  Boston, Thursday night, | March 29.  As I know you would like to hear from me, my dear friend,2 I will not yet go to bed   but sit down to write to you, that I have been here in Boston, to-day is a fortnight, and that my book is well under way. About a hundred and twenty pages are set up   it will probably make from six to seven hundred pages, and of a larger size than the last edition. It is to be very finely printed, good paper, and new, rather large-sized type. Thayer & Eldridge,3 the publishers, are a couple of young Yankees   so far very good specimens, to me, of this Eastern race of yours. They have treated me first rate   have not asked me at all what I was going to put into the book   just took me to the stereotype foundry, and given orders to follow my directions. It will be out in a month   a great relief to me to have the thing off my mind. I am more pleased with Boston than I anticipated. It is full of life, and criss-cross streets. I am very glad I [have] come, if only to rub out of me the deficient notions I had of New England character. I am getting to like it, every way   even the Yankee twang. Emerson called upon me immediately, treated me with the greatest courtesy   kept possession of me all day   gave me a bully dinner, &c.4 I go on the Common   walk considerable in Washington street   and occupy about three hours a day at work in the printing office. All I have to do, is to read proofs. I wish you lived here   I should visit you regularly every day   probably twice a day. I create an immense sensation in Washington street. Every body here is so like everybody else   and I am Walt Whitman!   Yankee curiosity and cuteness, for once, is thoroughly stumped, confounded, petrified, made desperate. Let me see   have I any thing else to say to you? Indeed, what does it all amount to   this saying business? Of course I had better tear up this note   only I want to let you see how I cannot have forgotten you   sitting up here after half past 12, to write this precious document. I send my love to Helen and Emmy. Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/wwh.00002.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Thomas Jefferson Whitman ,","Apr 1, 1860",0.0125118999048,"  Boston, Sunday night, | April 1st.  Dear Brother, I have just finished a letter to mother, and while my hand is in, I will write you a line. I enclose in my letter to Mother, a note from Hyde1   nothing at all in it, except that Han is well, and comfortably situated   I have not heard a word from home since I left   write me a few words, Jeff, if mother does not,2 and let me know how you all are, and whether you have took the house or given it up.3 I suppose of course if every thing was not going on pretty much as usual, some of you would have written to tell me. I am having a tolerable fair time here in Boston   not quite enough to occupy me   only two or three hours work a day, reading proof. Still, I am so satisfied at the certainty of having ""Leaves of Grass,"" in a far more complete and favorable form than before, printed and really published, that I don't mind small things. The book will be a very handsome specimen of typography, paper, binding, &c.   and will be, it seems to me, like relieving me of a great weight   or removing a great obstacle that has been in my way for the last three years. The young men that are publishing it treat me in a way I could not wish to have better. They are go-ahead fellows, and don't seem to have the least doubt they are bound to make a good spec. out of my book. It is quite curious, all this should spring up so suddenly, aint it.4 I am very well, and hold my own about as usual. I am stopping at a lodging house, have a very nice room, gas, water, good American folks keep it   I pay $2   eat at restaurant. I get up in the morning, give myself a good wash all over, and currying   then take a walk, often in the Common   then nothing but a cup of coffee generally for my breakfast   then to the stereotype foundry. About 12 I take a walk, and at 2, a good dinner. Not much else, in the way of eating, except that meal. If I have any thing to communicate, dear brother, I shall write again. Walt. Care of Thayer & Eldridge | 116 Washington st | Boston | Mass. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00392.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 3, 1860",0.0127838977288,"  Jamaica, [New York,] April 3rd /60 Dear Brother Walt, I have just now received yours of the 1st.1 I should have written to you before but when I left home a week ago yesterday Mother said she would write to you that day, and I believe she did, its singular that you have not received it Everything remains abt. as usual with us Walt. Mother has taken the house and rented the lower part to a Mr ""John Brown""2 @ $14 per month Mat and I keeping the same rooms as before.3 Andrew has been very sick but was getting better on Sunday when I was home. His disease commenced by a very violent pain in the side, kept up and made worse by an ignorent Dr. and those around him.4 Mother visited him most every day and kept his courage up I am truly glad Walt, that you are comfortably situated and the more so that you are having things done to suit you in the way of publishing your book. I quite long for it to make its appearence. What jolly times we will have reading the notices of it wont we. you must expect the ""Yam Yam Yam"" writer[s] to give you a dig as often as possible but I dont suppose you will mind it any more than you did in the days of your editorship of the B.[rooklyn] Eagle5 when the Advertiser['s] Lees6 used to go at you so roughly  Do you remember those days Walt. I was at home as usual last Sunday but there was nothing new  we miss you very much of course. Mother speaks very often of her small family now and talks of one room and bedroom &c  Mattie remains the same, she has plenty to do and talks of getting a girl to do housework. I'm getting to be quite a family man aint I.7 When do you suppose you will get through and come home. Mother has heard from you several times and it does her a great deal of good.8 you must write her often and let me hear from you again before long. I shall write to you again presently, now as you will perceive I am rather hard up for something to write about. Your affectionate Brother Jeff"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00863.html," Letter from O. K. Sammis to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 6, 1860",0.0131918944648,"  Brooklyn April 6, 1860 Box [illegible] P.O.  Friend Walter    I design [bearly?] to say How do you do, while you are in Boston, & to express my own pleasure at hearing that your ""Leaves of Grass,"" in its next issue, is to [eminate?] from that City.  It will hereafter be read in your day.  Every N.E. yankee factory girl will read and re-read it from an unconquerable passion, for to every N.E. mind its unfathomable inspirations willst be ""New every morning and fresh every evening.""  I know what is your mental fare in Boston from my own past personal experience and without wishing to intrude myself above my true level I could wish I were, at least, a stander-by. How shall I rise to life (action), is, now, my all pressing & all urgent question.  Let me have a line in regard to your experience in it, if convenient.  Accept my affectionate regards. O. K. Sammis To Walt Whitman.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00570.html," Letter from Fred Vaughan to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 9, 1860",0.0135998912009," How is this, Walt? I have written to you twice since I heard from you.2 Why don't you answer? How about them proof sheets?3 I have not seen any of them yet. Come, Walt, remember I take a deep interest in all that concerns you and must naturally be anxious to hear from you. Mrs Cooper4 and Robert5 keep asking me every evening ""if I have heard from Walt yet."" and if you do not write to me soon I am afraid I shall be under the painful necessity of telling a lie to keep up your reputation.    There is nothing new here.   The weather was disgusting both yesterday and today wet, muddy and chilly.   Did you see the Sunday Courier of April first? It contains an article on ""Yankee Bards and New York Critics.""   Get it if you can there, if not let me know & I will send it to you. It gives a good description of the Bohemian Club at Pfaffs6 in which you are set down as the grand master of ceremonies. Our folks have shifted me once more. I am now back again in my old position at 168 Broadway, behind the desk.   So please address me here.   Mrs. Cooper and Robert send their love and best wishes.   Write soon and do not forget those sheets. Your friend, ""Fred.""   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00393.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 16, 1860",0.0145518835849,"  Jamaica April 16th 1860 Dear Brother Walt, I was at home yesterday as usual  everything is going on about the same. Andrew has recovered in a great measure,1 so that he sits up and would probably have been out-doors but the weather has been very wet and cold here for the last week. Mother herself I think is not very well. she has a bad cold that seems to pull her down. I have got one of the worst colds I ever had, and feel extremely unlike myself, still anything of that kind sits lighter on me than on one of Mother's age, and this morning Ed. seemed to be quite sick, that is he couldn't eat and complained of a bad pain in his side, however Mother put a mustard plaster on him and he felt considerably better when I left home. Mattie and George, the rest of ""the family"" are well. The Mr Brown2 who has rented the lower part of the house has sent a number of things to the house, carpets &c. Mother has let him fix the front parlor and she has emigrated and taken posession of your room. The Moore people3 have not moved yet, and I believe do not intend to till 7 of May The Water Works men are all trembling in our boots, the [prospects?] being that we are all going to be kicked out, neck and heels, from the chief down to the Axeman. It seems that Mr F. Spinola4 started a bill at Albany some time last winter trying to oust the new commissioners (King, Lewis &c &c)5  well someone made an amendment casting out the present old Com. the new Com. Chief Eng. &c all the way through, and appointing Mr McElroy6 in place of Mr Kirkwood.7 It has passed one house, and I guess the chances are abt even for its passing the other, as Wells the Contractor8 is helping it with all the power he can muster. I think it will be a dark day for the B. W. W. if he succeeds, but I suppose to the victor belongs the spoils. I know I ain't going to worry, if it does go through.9 Mother wants me to be sure and tell you that you must bring her one of those books by the authoress of ""Consuelo""10 also Redpath's ""John Brown""11  she says you needn't send them as that would involve cost, but to surely remember to bring them with you when you come home. I read your letter at home.12 I am glad that you are having so good a time and that your book has such a good prospect of success. I sincerely hope you will meet with no disappointment. Write me again Walt. I like much to hear how you are getting along. I shall write to you again probably next week. Mattie sends her love. Your affectionate Brother Jeff."
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00848.html," Letter from Frederick Baker to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 23, 1860",0.015503875969,"  New York April 23/60                       Walter Whitman Esq.Dear Sir:                                       I trust you will pardon the liberty I have taken to trouble you with a matter of no personal interest to yourself.  My excuse for writing to you is, that it is a matter of the utmost importance to a client of mine.  The Deed executed to Lazarus Wineburgh in 1854 does not express the consideration money.  Wineburgh has recently effected a sale of the propery conveyed by that Deed; but objection is made to the title on the grounds of such omission. I have drawn another Deed which I send together with the old one. Will you be so kind as to execute this new Deed before a Commissioner of Deeds for the State of New York; and Mr Wineburgh will be under the greatest obligation to you.   As the execution of this deed and its speedy return is of great importance to Wineburgh, I respectfully request that you execute it at your earliest convenience. If you will inform us what your charges and disbursements are we will remit by return of mail, or will arrange the matter on your return to this city.  Yours most respectfully, Fred'k. Baker, 15 Nassau St. N.Y.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00756.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Frederick Baker ,","Apr 24, 1860",0.015639874881,"  Boston, Sunday night, | April 24.  Dear Brother, Mr. Baker,2 In compliance with your request, I execute and return the new and explanatory deed forthwith, depending upon you that it is all right, as I know nothing at all about such things. I paid Mr. Adams, the Commissioner, one dollar, which you may send me, if you please. Yours &c Walt Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00571.html," Letter from Fred Vaughan to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 30, 1860",0.0164558683531,"   Walt, I was very glad indeed to hear from you in answer to my last, and you know I could not but be gratified to find your business was progressing so favorably,   2 In accordance with not only your wishes, but my own I went to Brooklyn yesterday and saw your Mother.   I found her alone, Matt3 & Jeff4 out walking. Eddy5 at church, and George6 out somewhere's else I suppose. She did not remember me at first but as soon as she did she was very much pleased. I had a long talk, and settled the old $2.00 affair of Matts. I came away before she and Jeff returned. Walt, Mother says she feels first rate, is not at all sick, and I think she looks as well now as she did while I was living over there.   There is no news new Walt. The last fight, the Japenese Embassy, and the Charleston Democratic Convention, fill the papers to the exclusion of Every thing else.7   Dunn,8 the ex stage driver is in Boston with that Circus Co. I think he will call upon you as I gave him your address.   If you come on here this [week] Be sure and make it your business to call and see me. Do not neglect it please Walt, for I want to see you very much. Mrs. Cooper9 & Robert10 send their loves. Ever yours, In a Hurry! Fred.   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00757.html, Letter from Walt Whitman to W. W. Thayer and Charles W. Eldridge,"May 0, 1860",0.0164558683531," Arrived home all right, 24th, at dusk, over the ""shore line""   I like that route better than the old one   no dust that day, and fine view of the water, half the time.1 The package came safe to ho[me] on Friday, containing my 20 purch[ased] L. of G. and 20 to give away at discretion. I shall send you a tally of the latter as I  [incomplete]. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/wwh.00003.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Thomas Jefferson Whitman ,","May 10, 1860",0.0178158574731,"  Boston, | Thursday morning, May 10.  Dear Brother, I have nothing particular to write about, yet I know you will be glad to hear from me anyhow. The book is finished in all that makes the reading part, and is all through the press complete   It is electrotyped   that is, by a chemical process, a solution of copper, silver, zinc, &c. is precipitated in a ""bath,"" so as to cover the face of the plates of type all over, and make it very much harder and more enduring. Plates finished by that process wear well for hundreds of thousands of copies, and are probably a neater impression. But perhaps you know about it yourself. Thayer & Eldridge have put through 1000 copies, for the first pop. They have very accurate ideas of the whole matter. They expect it to be a valuable investment, increasing by months and years   not going off in a rocket way, (like ""Uncle Tom's Cabin."")1   The typographical appearance of the book has been just as I directed it, in every respect. The printers and foremen thought I was crazy, and there were all sorts of supercilious squints (about the typography I ordered, I mean)   but since it has run through the press, they have simmered down. Yesterday the foreman of the press-room (Rand's,2 an old establishment where all the best work is done,) pronounced it, in plain terms, the freshest and handsomest piece of typography that had ever passed through his mill   I like it, I think, first rate   though I think I could improve much upon it now. It is quite ""odd,"" of course. As to Thayer & Eldridge they think every thing I do is the right thing. We are just now in ""suspenders"" on account of the engraving. I have about decided, though, to have 1000 copies printed from it, as it is   and then let Schoff,3 the engraver, finish it afterwards   I do not know for certain whether it is a good portrait or not   The probability is that the book will be bound and ready, May 19. I make Thayer & Eldridge crack on the elegant workmanship of the book, its material, &c. but I won't allow them to puff the poetry   though I had quite a hard struggle   as they had prepared several tremendous puff advertisements   altogether ahead of Ned Buntline and the ""Ledger""4   I persuaded them to give me the copy to make some little corrections   which I did effectually by going straight to my lodgings, and putting the whole stuff in the fire   Oh, I forgot to tell you, they have printed a very neat little brochure, (pamphlet,) of 64 pages, called ""Leaves of Grass Imprints,"" containing a very readable collection of criticisms on the former issues   This is given away gratis, as an advertisement and circular. Altogether, Jeff, I am very, very much satisfied and relieved that the thing, in the permanent form it now is, looks as well and reads as well (to my own notion) as I anticipated   because a good deal, after all, was an experiment   and now I am satisfied. And how goes it with you, my dear? I watched the N. Y. papers to see if Spinola's5 bill passed   but it didn't, of course, or I should of heard of it in many ways. So you must be on the works still   If I get a chance I will take a look at the Boston Works before I leave. The water is almost exactly like the Brooklyn water in taste. I got Mother's letter6   tell Mother I may not write next Monday, as I am in hopes to be home, I can't tell exactly what day, but through the week. Oh the awful expense I have been under here, Jeff, living the way I have, hiring a room, and eating at restaurants   7 cents for a cup of coffee, and 19 cts for a beefsteak   and me so fond of coffee and beefsteak. Tell mother I think it would have been worth while for her to have moved on here, and boarded me    I have had a very fair time, though, here in Boston   Very, very many folks I meet I like much   I have never seen finer   they are fine in almost every respect   very friendly, very generous, very good feeling, and of course intelligent people   The great cramper of the Bostonian is, though, to be kept on the rack by the old idea of respectability, how the rest do, and what they will say. There are plenty of splendid specimens of men come from the other New England states to settle here, especially from Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, &c, that if they would let themselves be, and only make that better and finer, would beat the world. For there is no denying that these Yanks are the first-class race. But, without exception, they all somehow allow themselves to be squeezed into the stereotype mould, and wear straight collars and hats, and say ""my respects""   like the rest. Of course I cannot walk through Washington street, (the Broadway here,) without creating an immense sensation. I sent a couple of papers to Han this morning. Oh how much I would like to see her once more7   and I must, this summer   After I recruit a while home, I shall very likely take a tour, partly business and partly for edification, through all the N[ew] E[ngland] states   then I shall see Han   I shall write to her before I leave here   and do you write also, Jeff   don't fail   Should you write to me, in response to this, you must write so that I would get the letter not later than Wednesday morning next   as I feel the fit growing upon me stronger and stronger to move   And the fare is only $3 now from here to New York, cabin passage, in the boat   Besides I could go dead head if I was to apply   Jeff, I feel as if things had taken a turn with me, at last   Give my love to Mat, and all my dear brothers, especially Georgie. Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/med.00326.html," Letter from Henry Clapp , Jr. to Walt Whitman ,","May 12, 1860",0.0180878552972,"  New York, May 12, 1860.  My dear Walt, The books are duly delivered. The publishers and printers deserve high praise for the superb manner in which they have done their work. For the poet, he shall hear from me next week. Meanwhile I am up to my eyes   and over my eyes even to blindness   in the slough of a fearful road to that great castle ""success"" which looms up in the dim religious distance, and from which white-winged angels, peopling every turret, beckon me with many colored banners. In plainer English I am fighting like a thousand Humans to establish the Saturday Press, and have for my almost only encouragement the cheering words of warm and appreciating friends who alas (as in such cases made and provided) have nothing but words to give, and also the printer will not be paid in words though they are ""like apples of gold in pictures of silver."" As for you, success is certain. It is written all over the book. There is an aroma about it that goes right to the soul. What I can do for it, in the way of bringing it before the public, over and over again, I shall do, and do thoroughly   if the S.P. is kept alive another month. We have more literary influence than any other paper in the land, and as your poems are not new to me, I can say it will all be used for the book   in the interest of poetry. My brother George will deliver this. He is of the right stamp.  In haste Henry Clapp.2  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/med.00331.html," Letter from Henry Clapp , Jr. to Walt Whitman ,","May 14, 1860",0.0183598531212,"  N.Y. Monday May 14, '60  My dear Walt: I spent much time yesterday reading your poems, and am more charmed with them than ever. I think you would have done well to follow Mr. Emerson's advice, but you may have done better as it is. At any rate, the book is bound to sell, if money enough is spent circulating the Reprints and advertising it generally. It is a fundamental principle in political economy that everything succeeds if money enough is spent on it. If I could spend five hundred dollars in one week on the Saturday Press I would make five thousand dollars by the operation. Ditto you with the L. of G. You should send copies at once to Vanity Fair, Momus, The Albion, The Day Book, The Journal of Commerce, Crayon   also to Mrs. Juliette H. Beach, Albion, N.Y.,3 who will do you great justice in the S.P. (for we shall have a series of articles)   to Charles D. Gardette Esq, No 910 Walnut Street, Philadelphia, to Evening Journal, Philadelphia, and also some dozen copies to me to be distributed at discretion. Do not hereafter ask the editors to notice at any particular time or at all: for the effect is bad. I want to do great things for you with the book, and as soon as I get over my immediate troubles will do so. But just now I am in a state of despair even in respect to getting out another issue of the S.P. and all for want of a paltry two or three hundred dollars which would take the thing to a paying point, and make it worth ten thousand dollars as a transferable piece of property.  Yours in haste, Henry Clapp, Jr.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00572.html," Letter from Fred Vaughan to Walt Whitman ,","May 17, 1860",0.0187678498572,"   Dear Walt.    What the devil is the matter? Nothing serious I hope.   It seems mighty queer that I cannot succeed in having one word from you.   I swear I would have thought you would be the last man in this world to neglect me.   But I am afraid.    Lizzie is married!, Johnny is dead! Walt has forgotten.   Such is life, Yours,  Fred.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00384.html," Letter from Charles L. Heyde to Walt Whitman ,","May 18, 1860",0.0189038487692,"  Burlington May 18. 1860  Dear Walt. Received your book, also a letter for Han.   Feel proud myself   the copy I now have is just the thing to handle frequently   I like the portrait, it looks very much as you do at the present time. It has a little air of a foreign savan   however   but it is a good likeness. I think that some of the poems open splendid   grandly   there is a fault or eccentricity however, in some, that is, they diverge too abruptly from a lofty theme or elevating imagery into common place   ordinary   and repulsive object, or subject matter   But they are poems of the thoroughfare of life passions and emotions of the universe and humanity   on all sides taken   as they approach and appear without selection   sympathies utterd and communion held with all in turn and none rejected   Poems of glorious, liberal, soul filld emotion. They will be read   they must have a place   But you'l write a perfect poem one of these days, filld with nature sublime   Your thoughts are true thoughts   Common sense is the best philosophy   Cant has too long ruled the world and judged the case of erring humanity   Your poems are sustaining   I hope that there will be a jolly good fight over them   The public are lazy   and need some disturbance to arouse them    Many thanks to you   We expected to have seen you here   Han is disappointed, but you have been detaind in Boston a long time   Our scenery here has conceald all its lofty and varied beauty and sublimity   No rain has fal'n for two months   The sun rises and sets as if it threatend to pierce the earth with its ball of fire   The atmesphere is dense and impenetrable   the mountains totaly obscured. We shall see you some time   I want Han to see her Mother   for a change. I shall come to New York for her myself   I want to visit it   I think that I shall have to return to that place or Boston or get nearer some city   Give us more poems Walt   I hope there'l be a genearl big row   in the papers   Stir em up well   I look for it.  Charlie  I want a handsome bound volume for a keepsake   mind that now  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00573.html," Letter from Fred Vaughan to Walt Whitman ,","May 21, 1860",0.0193118455052," Dear Walt, I received your note this a.m. and I was very very much pleased to hear from you. I am right glad to hear your mission to Boston has terminated so successfully.2 I hope to God it may be not only a success as regards its typography, appearance and real worth, but also pecuniarily a success. For you know, ""A well filled pocket, now & then, is relished by the best of men.""3 Walt, I hope you will be home soon. I want to see you very much indeed. I have never thought more frequently about you than during the time you have been in Boston. Make it your business to call and see me as soon as you arrive in New York, and we can make an appointment to pass some hours together. As I have much, very much to talk to you about. Robt4 and Mrs. Cooper5 send their love, Yours truly, Fred.   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00574.html," Letter from Thayer & Eldridge to Walt Whitman ,","May 24, 1860",0.0197198422413,"  Boston May 24, 1860  Dear Walt, I have this day sent to Mr. Clapp2 Bound Vols. Leaves of Grass for the Editorial Fraternity as follows.3  Editor Saturday Press     Ada Clare4 NY Herald     E.G.P. Wilkins5 Times6 Tribune7 Day Book8 Vanity Fair9 Momus10 Illustrated News11 Herald of Progress12 Journal Commerce13 Evening Post14   Hoping for their safe arrivals, and strong effect upon their readers who command the Press, we give you our hand again   on paper   and say goodbye  Thayer & Eldridge  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00575.html," Letter from W. W. Thayer to Walt Whitman ,","Jun 5, 1860",0.0213518291854,"  Boston June 5/60  Dear Walt    We sent you yesterday copy of Banner of Light c[illegible]ty critique as Leaves Grass written by Gen. Canning Hill,   He appreciates the Poems & you too2. Be assured he speaks truthfully and just as he believes & feels.    By the bye, will you please write for our consideration terms of contract for publishing L of G.?  We have been expecting said document, and now wish to have it adjusted as early as possible if agreeable to yourself.  Inasmuch as our ""writing"" has been submitted to you, your ""writing"" submitted to us will accommodate us if sent early.   We have so many things to think of that we would like to dispose of this contract & ""go on our way rejoicing"".   Regards to Mr. Clapp   &3 for yourself the ""fraternals"" of Thayer & Eldridge.  I think that Mrs. Beach's criticism is just about the damndest piece of scolding ever written by a woman who does not know what she is talking about4. My wife was indignant, and I should not wonder if she wrote a reply to it.   W. W. Thayer  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/uva.00343.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Henry Clapp , Jr. ,","Jun 12, 1860",0.0223038215694,"  Brooklyn,  | Tuesday afternoon, June 12.  Dear friend,1 Fearful that, by insufficient examination you may not do justice to the articles from Mr. Leland,2 but give them the go-by, I write to make a special request that, if convenient, you print them in next S[aturday] P[ress]   the poem leading first col. first page, the prose following immediately after. Those articles, (I feel it thoroughly,) have certain little grains of salt that I wish to see put in a way of ""leavening"" the lump of       3 you know what. Walt. Did you see what Mrs. Heenan4 says about me in last ""Sunday Mercury""   first page?  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00576.html," Letter from Thayer & Eldridge to Walt Whitman ,","Jun 14, 1860",0.0225758193934,"  Boston June 14, 1860  Dear Walt, Your favor came duly to hand.  We send you by Express to-day prepaid care of Mr. Clapp of Spruce St   12 copies of the Leaves2. We have had none bound in dark cloths yet his shall have in the next edition3. The first edition is nearly all gone, and the second is all printed and ready for binding. We do not think that this Summer is the time to commence a rigorous and systematic course of advertising. As soon as cooler weather comes and people are crowding the great cities we intend to advertise largely both by circular, porters, and the press. We shall however do considerable advertising this summer. We have concocted a plan by which we hope to give the Imprints a very wide and telling circulation, and which we shall put into action immediately4. If you will look in the next number of Frank Leslie, an advertisement headed ""a Good Book given away"" will explain what we mean5. This we intend to have go in as an Editorial Advertisement to nearly every paper in the Country, and keep it certainly in. This ought to give us a very large lot of mail orders, and we think that the mail will be a larger customer than all the Trade put together at least for the present.6 There is considerable opposition among the trade to the book. Brown & Taggard the largest jobbers in Boston to Country booksellers, refuse to supply the orders for it and will not buy a copy7. C. N. Lee tho still hold out, and sell all they can.  The rest of the trade sell what they are obliged to, but cannot be induced to urge it any   of course we intend to conquer this opposition partly born of prejudices and partly of cowardice, by creating an overwhelming demand among the main public, which shall sweep them and their petty fears, on its resistless torrent. I have sent such an advertisement as you hear of to the N.Y. Tribune   for a standing notice. We shall shortly come out with an advertisement to touch the pleasure travellers in all the principal cities   8 Meanwhile the Papers are noticing it pretty well   the Scottish American has a very fair notice, and we get some almost every day. We received the N.Y. Mercury with the allusion of Ada Isaacs Menken Heenan, and think it a good indication that the book is reaching the lower strata9    In regard to the contract, we desire that it should be fixed as early as possible. We don't know what accidents may happen in this life, and a matter of that kind should not go without being determined. We sent the books to England a long while ago.   a day or two after you left Boston. Shall we send your oil portrait back?10 Should like to hear from you soon. Our shop fellows all send their best remembrances to you   Mrs. Thayer desires to be remembered also.   Yours Truly Thayer & Eldridge  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.01012.html," Letter from James Redpath to Walt Whitman ,","Jun 25, 1860",0.0240718074255,"  Malden, June 25th, 1860.  O rare Walt Whitman! I said I would write to you about your Book when I found time to read it as it was written to be read. But I take back my promise. For if you are not sane what will writing avail? and if you are sane your writings are alive with richest sanity. Now, if I do not understand them, or any parts of them, what good will it do to say so   silence, it seems to me, is a duty till I do understand them; and then again, if I do understand them, or when I shall do so, what good will it do to tell you of the fact? It is a waste of breath for my friend to tell me I am healthy when my pulse records the circumstance so often every minute. I love you, Walt! A Conquering Brigade will ere long march to the music of your barbaric jawp. Ever and truly  James Redpath.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/med.00332.html," Letter from Susan Garnet Smith to Walt Whitman ,","Jul 11, 1860",0.0262477900177,"  Hartford, July 11th, 1860.  Know Walt Whitman that I am a woman! I am not beautiful, but I love you! I am thirty-two years old. I am one of the workers of the world. A friend carelessly lends me Leaves of Grass for a day. Stealing an hour from labor I take it out for a walk. I do not know what I carry in my arms pressed close to my side and bosom! I feel a strange new sympathy! a mysterious delicious thrill! what means it? It is the loving contact of an affinite soul blending harmoniously with mine. I begin to know Walt Whitman. I have not yet seen him. I feel that I must be alone. I turn my steps to ""Zion's Mill"" a cemetery. The sun shines, the air is clean and fine, the birds trill songs, love songs, songs of praise for the boon of existence, or chirrup amorously to each other. They do not hesitate to tell their love: why should I? I seat myself under a tree and muse a moment. A lovely panorama is before me. Hartford and the surrounding country. I hear no human voice, see no human form. The ashes of the dead are spread around me. ""Did I say the dead?"" I am alone. ""Am I alone?"" I could sit thus forever with my newly-found soul. But somebody whispers, open your book! What care I for books now (though loved companions ever before). I have that which is better than books. The book opens itself. What do I behold! oh! blessed eyes! I see the image of the great beloved soul, which has already embraced encompassed me. Blessed be thy father and thy mother and the hour of thy conception. Oh! rich is America in her noble, manly, fearless son. Know Walt Whitman that thou hast a child for me! A noble beautiful perfect manchild. I charge you my love not to give it to another woman. The world demands it! It is not for you and me, is our child, but for the world. My womb is clean and pure. It is ready for thy child my love. Angels guard the vestibule until thou comest to deposit our and the world's precious treasure. Then oh! how tenderly, oh! how lovingly will I cherish and guard it, our child my love. Thine the pleasure my love. Mine the sweet burden and pain. Mine the sacrifice. Mine to have the stinging rebuke, the shame. I am willing. My motives are pure and holy. Our boy my love! Do you not already love him? He must be begotten on a mountain top, in the open air. Not in lust, not in mere gratification of sensual passion, but in holy ennobling pure strong deep glorious passionate broad universal love. I charge you to prepare my love. I love you, I love you, come, come. Write.  Susan Garnet Smith  Hartford, Connecticut   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00577.html," Letter from Thayer & Eldridge to Walt Whitman ,","Jul 27, 1860",0.0284237726098,"  Boston July 27, 1860  Dear Walt. Your letter came duly to hand, we have not answered previously because we have had nothing particular to say, nor indeed have we now any further than that the English periodicals appear to be waking up   that notice in the Saturday Review is quite a pungent one2. The praise in regard to the mechanical execution of the book is great, from that source. It is more apparent however every day that a less, pretentious Edition to sell at $1.00 must be the one to be universally sold   we approve heartily of your idea in regard to a change in this respect   the fine Ed must be put up to 1.50 more would be sold at that price than 125 we believe, because when you make a difference in price people all at once see a difference in quality which they were blind to before3. If you make a book too good for the money   you ask for it, you degrade it at once. People do like to pay the cost of what they buy. Still it is very evident that it was the best policy to insure the fine editions in the style in which they have appeared. It has commanded an attention and respect which we otherwise should not have obtained in certain quarters.  Have you seen the notice in the Literary Gazette   it is regular ""out and outer.""4 As I write I am informed that the Spectator has noticed it but I have not seen it5. As soon as we get any thing worth while we will report it as an advertisement in the N.Y. papers6. About Fall we should make an extensive push in the advertisement way. We are now receiving 300 applications a day for Imprints but the orders by mail do not seem to come in much yet   probably owing to the season of the year which is more adopted to haying than reading. We shall probably dispose of all the second Edition before the close of next month and we think that we had better point it cheaper for the next Edition, with a small Edition of the other style with the addition at 1.50. Let us hear from you further on this point   we do not think favorably of paper covers for a dollar book   nor paper covers for any kind   Let it be flexible cloth or cloth with boards. Enclosed is a list of P[illegible] in England which have been furnished with Leaves of Grass   Yours Truly  Thayer & Eldridge  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00147.html, Letter from Walt Whitman to Thayer & Eldridge,"Aug 0, 1860",0.0289677682579," [Walt Whitman referred to Henry Clapp, editor of the Saturday Press, who ""wrote more than once to me while I was in Boston, to become the solicitor and medium of pecuniary aid from you to him, to support his paper. Such solicitations I declined to act upon. He then wrote directly to you   and you advanced him $200. I think the money has been well enough invested   The paper has many original . . .""]2 "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.01003.html," Letter from Wilhelmina Walton to Walt Whitman ,","Aug 16, 1860",0.03114375085,"  Hargood, August 16  Walt Whitman. My Dear Sir: I stood beneath the broad dome of the crystal palace.   within a nave viewing a piece of marble statuary: my soul seemed to breathe, did breathe into that form the breath of life: the broad chest heaved with passionate creation! those limbs were no longer pulseless and the eye returned my admiring gaze.   I reached out my hand to feel the life-blood thrill beneath my fingers   I was faint with transport. How divine! how wonderful! But I was wakened from my trance by a hiss of dirision:   a jostle from the crowd, and a whispered caution   ""Come away darling""!   My eyes were opened:   before me stood a nude figure! I should not have seen it but for the vulgar crowd I had heard of your poem and a remembrance from the stationer made me desirous of having in my possession   all alone! It lay upon my lap. I opened it with dainty fingers.   Starting at the faintest sound fearing intrusion!   But as I drank nectar from the fount of inspiration, a myriad spectre forms might jostle, hiss and frown   I understood the Poet!   I too had felt my heart beat against the broad bosom of the earth, and kissed the dewy tears from her face.   talked with the stars, and dallied with the ocean;   embraced the rough old scragly oak, and in return hear an anthem wail from his hoar branches:   had lain upon a mossy bed within the quiet, dusky dingle;   through my arms above my head to catch the stray sunbeams;   hugged it to my bosom transported with extatic emotion;   yet never came before my vision sensual forms or thought found place in my imagination;   Was I passionless?   Did I not love the sun and stars, the birds and flowers, rocks and trees and man, the laborer, broad chested, sun burnt, vigorous man! and woman   my sister   gentle, lovely woman. Have I not blessed the tears.   the warm, sympathetic tears that crept from beneath my eyelids and rolled lovingly down my bosom, soothing my beating heart? Have I not sought the vaulted chamber, canopying the earth, and gazed upon the myriad worlds listening to their murmuring voices   felt the [caution?] of the night, felt in [draperied?] fold about me   Oh, every thing was holy! Why did you not drape your poems with a fig leaf brother Walt?   Not for me   it would have roused me from my dream of bliss. I had heard again the [illegible] cantiere [illegible] every darling; the crowd sneer at you;...... I have read your poem and pronounce it ""good"" as you merge from behind the screen and stand boldly forward   I give you my hand, and return your kindly greeting.   God bless you for the ""Leaves of Grass"" which you have gleaned from the meadow; on the highway;   by the seashore on the camp ground, wet with the dews of heaven and ""tears of angels""     Yours Truly Wilhelmina Walton  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00578.html," Letter from Thayer & Eldridge to Walt Whitman ,","Aug 17, 1860",0.031279749762,"  Boston August 17, 1860  Dear Walt, You will accept our hearty thanks for your kindly advice about the S.P.     You can rely upon our keeping it secret   2 Perhaps Mr. Clapp told you of our offer to take it September 1st. We rec'd a letter today from him stating he intended to visit us Monday or Tuesday to make sure arrangement with us    if possible. Now as you have been so kind as to give us a valuable hint, will you please write us per return mail stating what you know of the affairs of the S.P.   that is if it can be done without trenching upon your friendly relations with Mr. Clapp? Is the paper in debt, if so to whom; are there any liabilities incurred, which would make it subject to attachment if sold to an owned by parties not formerly connected with it.    what are Mr. Howlands' claims, and of what nature3.  Does he help edit the paper? These questions we asked with a view to our being the sole owners of the Press with Mr. Clapp for editor. The tone of his letter indicates a determination to make a trade with us of some kind, and therefore we wish to have any statement of his affairs he may make corroborated by others. If you have no objections to answering our queries we would esteem it a favor to hear from you by return mail. Your suggestion as to our discerning the ownership and responsibilities of the paper we regard as the only practical thing that can be done, toward relieving Mr. C. from his difficulties. Of course we should not want it unless he was its Editor and we could be its business managers.  We can make it pay (we think) in a very short time. Besides we are deeply interested in sustaining any journal that dares in these days of literary flunkeyism to be independent, and make the literature of a country what it should be. Now if Mr. C. can obtain a business party to do the business of the paper (T&E or some other), what a flourishing paper could be got up. But T&E do not want to be subjected to any liabilities connected with the past of the S.P. and therefore proceed with caution before operating. We wrote to Mr. C. some days ago making an offer, but now we shall act having in view your suggestion. About the L of G ~ Our Mr. E. is in the country to return tonight or tomorrow. He will write you at length about the Cheap Edition as he has it in charge 4~ Will Mr. Clapp use the notice of L of G in the Cincinnati Daily Press5? If not please re-mail it to us when you have done with it. We have heard of the ""Dial"" notice, but could not get a copy here. We have written to the Editor for a copy6. We too wish you could be with us in Boston for we have so much to say; and our ""fanatic"" wants to get under the refreshing shelter of Walt's spirit; he does not ask Walt to talk, but only for the privilege of looking into those eyes of calm; and through them to Enter into that Soul, so deep in its Emotions, so majestic in all its thoughts   movements, and yet so simple and childlike7. Yes, Walt Whitman; though men of the world and arch-critics do not understand thee, yet some there be among men and women who love thee and hold thy spirit close by their own. ""Among the men and women, the multitude, I perceive are picking me out by secret and divine signs    * * * * some are baffled   But that one is not   that one knows me.""8 And to Dear Walt, would we love to seek you and learn to know you. And have we not known you?    We will try the Smithsonian House when we are obliged to represent the ""Hub"" in Gotham. Either Mr E or T will be in New York soon on business and will then see you, unless that you first come to Boston. Frank regretted his missing you. Perhaps the miss in this case was a mile. We do not care one single damn for the Miss Nancys of Bookdom but shall continue to publish and sell Leaves of Grass ""so long"" as Walt will have us.   Goodbye for a day or two from your genuine  Thayer & Eldridge  over Dear Walt,  I wrote you in the name of T&E a longer letter than I intended. Somehow I could not stop. I felt such a wondrous geniality, that I Enjoyed looking at your handwriting and imagined you were before me instead of the letter. My dear little wife wants to write you a letter, and will when the domestic gods are propitious, so that she can talk with the great Poet as she would like. She has had much ill health, but is now much better. I wish you could visit our home. The country is delightful. You would laugh and grow fat to see our blessed Jamaica Plain and enjoy its beauties. ~ Come and see us if you can. There now, some business comes in that I must attend to so I close W.W.T.   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00579.html," Letter from Thayer & Eldridge to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 11, 1860",0.0387596899225,"  Boston Oct 11, 1860  Dear Walt, We received your letters with the advertisement which will be attended to2. We cannot however stereotype your little book now as we have so much already underway. We shall hardly be ready for it under two months, but shall certainly commence on it by the finish of January. In regard to money matters, we are very short ourselves and it is quite impossible to send you the sum you name. We would if we could3. Business will be stagnant with us till after the Presidential elections when with our new books we shall get up a rush,   Ever Yours  Thayer & Eldridge  P.S.	We will let you know when we are ready for the Banner at Daybreak, so as to give you ample time to make preparations to come on  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00580.html," Letter from Thayer & Eldridge to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 15, 1860",0.0393036855705,"  Boston Oct 15, 1860  Dear Walt, Your favor is at hand. We cannot let you have the amount you name or any amount for the present2. This is our final answer for the time being.   Yours Truly  Thayer & Eldridge  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00581.html," Letter from Thayer & Eldridge to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 1, 1860",0.0456956344349,"  Boston December 1st, 1860  Dear Walt, Things look immensely dubious today.  Can't tell you anything encouraging at present.  We are working hard.  Do not use the check yet2.   Will write you again Monday or Tuesday.   Hoping for the best good of us all we remain your friends & brothers  T&E     P.S.   My wife sends her warm regards to you.  She desires much to see you.  W.W.T.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00582.html," Letter from Thayer & Eldridge to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 5, 1860",0.046239630083,"   Do not for God's sake breathe a word of this to any one even after the papers report it.   Boston   December 5, 1860   Dear Father, We go by the board tomorrow or next day2.  Please return the check to Mr. Honeybun care of Thayer & Eldridge3. We have fixed your account so that creditors cannot trouble you & so that you owe us but a nominal sum just for appearance sake.    Our friends would help us but from the condition of our affairs & the prospect of bad business for six or twelve months to come advise us to stop immediately, wind up & begin again.      Yours Truly  T&E  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00583.html," Letter from Harvey Jewell and C. S. Kendall to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 6, 1861",0.0548075615395,"  Feb. 6, 1861  My dear Sir, Please find bill enclosed of 20.242. You are requested to pay the sum immediately and much oblige you with such,   H. Jewell C. S. Kendall Assignees for     tab of Thayer & Eldridge  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00584.html," Letter from W. W. Thayer to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 19, 1861",0.0645994832041,"  Forest Hill April 19/61  My Dear Walt. Family sickness has prevented an early reply to yours of 12th rec'd three or four days ago. Horace Wentworth has bought of the assignees the stock of T&E.2 In said stock are Plates of Leaves of Grass.  These plates were included in a lot of plates sometime ago mortgaged to Isaac Tower for money we raised of him.  The mortgage purports to belong to Isaac Tower but from all we have seen Wentworth was the real mortgagee & used Tower for a blind   so that the plates are in W's hands fast & tight.  The assignees threatened at one time to break up the mortgage so as to have Tower's claim come in on a par with those of the general creditors.  But as Wentworth has now possession of our old stock and is actually doing business at 116 Wash. Street, the presumption is that some compromise has been effected between Tower (?) & the assignees Wentworth/Tower may have consented to release the mortgage & have thus secured a good bargain from the assignees.   The upshot is that your plates are in Wentworth's hands.    I think you had best correspond with Wentworth & he will answer by hand of our old book keeper Mr. Honeybun whom W. has hired    As Wentworth is an illiterate man and knows not real merit in literature I think he will not be inclined go to expense extra to make additions to L of G and yet he may   can't tell.  You had best write him.  He is a man who loves to be wiley sometimes & therefore may defer giving you a deffinite answer to your questions of him   especially in view of the present unsettled condition of the Country. Even after he makes a promise, the fulfilment is often very tardy3.    He is our, or rather my bitter and relentless enemy & therefore it would be a difficult matter for either myself or Eldridge to get any satisfactory knowledge of his intentions with regard to you. Things are decidedly uninteresting with me.  I have known the want of money sadly since our failure and the value of true friendship.  I have suffered much mentally; have endured severe discipline; my darling wife has been sick a great deal, and though uncomplaining at my misfortunes, yet worried and harrassed by our deprivations.  I have been unsuccessful in getting employment, though I now hope for a clerkship in our Boston Post office.   I have the ""war fever"" very severely, which unlike other fevers with me preys inward and does not show itself externally.  Nothing but the home duties which for the present are absolute, prevent a speedy offering of myself to the Government as a soldier.  True I might not prove strong enough for much hard work but I could fire my gun once and die, for my country. My soul swells as I contemplate the mighty issues involved in this contest.  They are not merely the stability of this Government, but the Abolition of slavery which alone is to send this nation to a most glorious destiny.  Either under one confederacy or two, we shall have no peace until slavery is crushed out, even if negotiations for peace between the two sections, permit slavery to still live. Mrs. Thayer desires to be remembered to her dear friend Walt Whitman with her best regards for that genial soul and strong man.  She would once more like to meet him face to face.   I'm sure I would. I have intended many times to write you and as often ""backed out.""  I wrote you one letter and did not send it because It was not appropriate to your feelings & my own circumstances. My dear Walt I am not yet conquered.  I have everything external to crush me and stinging poverty to freeze my heart, but my day is coming.  Perhaps for a year I shall live an isolated life, but the events are now combining that shall develope for me a destiny unlike my past career.  I know not where my ""star"" will travel, but that it will course through space & hover over the particular field of my marked out labors I do not doubt. That field will be extensive and arduous, but not in business life.  I live in hope, golden hope that stands by me still. Wentworth has done all he could to prejudice the creditors against us and has lied about us so that many think we are swindlers.  I guess if we had been neither Charley nor myself would be as poor as we are.  The assignees acknowledged after examining our affairs that we have not committed the wholesale robbery ascribed to us by W.   Yet with all my personal enemies to traduce me, I care not, for conscious within, that their aspersions are unfounded I can afford to be victorious and live.  I will not be crushed.  I will live.  God bless you my dear man. How I wish I could bless you substantially with a hundred ""spot"" but who knows but that in the future I may be able to be a substantial friend to you.   Well good bye for now.  I will write you again soon.  Charley sends regards.   Yours Truly  W.W. Thayer  [Newcomb?] has proved himself a damned traitor to our interests.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00313.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jun 28, 1861",0.0741194070447,  '61 Camp Brooklyn near Baltimore June 28  My dear Mother Your letter and Walts came all right and glad enough was I hear that you are getting a little better. You must have had a hard time Mother being sick so long but do not get discouraged and I hope you will soon be as well as ever. We have Just moved our camp. The place were we were first was a hill without a tree or any sort of shade. were we are now there are plenty of shade trees so that we are very comfortable. I am Just as well and hearty as can be. I have slept out in the rain and on the ground but have not felt a bit the worse for it so I think I can go through like a book. When we first came here our camp was fired into for three or four nights in succession  there were four or five shots fired each night and we could hear the balls whiz through the camp but no one was struck. I and half a dozen others were sent out to scout about and see what we could find  we took our pistols and India rubber blankets and lay down in the grass about 200 yards from each other (the place were we are is about like Bedford)  we were out two nights and brought in about a dozen chaps but they were all let go as there was nothing against them but hanging around the camp. I and two others were sent out the other day to arest a secession soldier from Harpers Ferry who it is supposed came on here as a spy. We went out in the city  the chap that gave us the information shewed us the house and we went in and took him and brought him to camp  he was sent to Fort McHenry the same day to be tried for a spy. This city is a regular secession place  as we walk through the streets in the city the Women and children make a regular practice of saying as we pass them hurah for Jeff Davis  the men dont say anything but you can see by the looks of the most of them that they dont like us at all. This city was placed under Marshall law yesterday and the celebrated Marshal Kane2 was arested and sent to the Fort. It kicked up quite an excitement in the city but they did not go any further than to stand on the corners and growl. It would not have been well for them to have made any row as there are about 8000 Troops encamped about here with a Splendid Battery of Artilery of 8 peices  the Batery and two of the regiments are from Massachusets and they would like very mutch to get square for the afair on the 19th of April.3 Well Mother the three Months is going fast and I shall soon be with you again. I see some very foolish articles in the papers about us sutch as not haveing any thing to eat for 36 hours and being almost naked but you must not believe any thing of the kind as we are as well off as we could expect4  You speak in your letter of sending me some Money  We expect to get our pay from the Government in the course of a few days but if we do not I have enough to last me untill I get home. Mother you need not wory about me at all as I am not in want of anything and I dont believe we shal see any fighting at all. I was sent out on a scout again last night  I went all around outside of the picket guard and down in the city but after ten O Clock it was as quiet as Brooklyn  Well good bye Mother  give my love to all and let me hear from you again right away. G. W. Whitman
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00378.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to George Washington Whitman ,","Jul 12, 1861",0.0760233918129,"  [B]rooklyn,  | [Friday]1 July 12th, 1861.  Dear Brother, Your letter come to-day. Every thing with us is pretty much the same. Mother is pretty much the same. Some days she [is] better, and some not so well. She has taken a good many sulphur vapor baths. She takes one every other day. She goes down in the cars to the baths, in Willoughby street near the City Hall.2 Sometimes Mat goes with her, [and once in] a while she goes [alo]ne. They are rather agreeable to take   they make one sweat extremely. Mother goes about the same, around the house. She has better use of her arms and wrists than she did there one time   but an hour or two, now and then, generally in the morning, she has bad pains. Her appetite is pretty good. The weather here lately has been awful   three days the heat was as bad as I ever knew it   so I think that had something to do with mother's feeling weak. To-day it is much cooler. Jeff and Martha and Cis3 and Eddy are all well. Jess is the same as usual   he works every day in the yard. He does not seem to mind the heat. He is employed in the store-house, where they are continually busy preparing stores, provisions, to send off in the different vessels. He assists in that. We are all very glad the 13th is coming home   mother especially. There have been so many accounts of shameful negligence, or worse, in the commissariat of your reg't. that there must be something in it   notwithstanding you speak very lightly of the complaints in your letters. The Eagle, of course, makes the worst of it, every day, to stop men from enlisting.4 All of us here think the rebellion as good as broke   no matter if the war does continue for months yet. Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/prc.00004.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to James Russell Lowell ,","Oct 1, 1861",0.0870393036856,"  Brooklyn |  Tuesday morning October 1st | 1861  Mr. Lowell, Dear Sir: The price of ""1861,"" if you print it, is $20. You are at liberty to make any verbal alterations. The envelope is of course to return it in, if you cannot use it.2 Yours truly W. Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/har.00051.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to James Russell Lowell ,","Oct 2, 1861",0.0871753025976,"  Brooklyn, / Wednesday morning, October 2, 1861.  Mr. Lowell,1 Dear Sir: I also send you two more little pieces, to take their chances for the magazine. The price, if you take them, will be $8 each. I forgot to say, with the one I sent yesterday, that whatever pieces are printed, I reserve the right to include them in any future collection of my poems.  yours, W. Whitman  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00585.html," Letter from the Editors , The Atlantic Monthly to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 10, 1861",0.0882632938936,"  OFFICE OF THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY BOSTON, Oct. 10, 1861. MR. WALT WHITMAN    BROOKLYN, N.Y.  Dear Sir:   We beg to inclose to your address, in two envelopes, the three poems with which you have favored us, but which we could not possibly use before their interest,   which is of the present,   would have passed. Thanking you for your attention,    We are, Very truly yours,  EDITORS OF ATLANTIC MONTHLY.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.01005.html, Letter from Walt Whitman to Samuel Livingston Breese,"Nov 0, 1861",0.0911192710458," Jesse Whitman, a laboring man, in the engineer's department   has for some time been working in the provision store   was yesterday told that ""his services were dispensed with.""2 This is to apply that he be continued in employment. He is a steady industrious man, and was strongly recommended by Mr. Kalbfleish, the Mayor,3 and kept on by Mr. Graham, the late engineer.4  Can bring a request from Mr. Wall,5  M. C. or Mr. Humphrey,6 late M. C. if desired   but it is hoped that the engineer will continue him on in employment without "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00591.html, Letter from Lieutenant Silas S. Soule to Walt Whitman,"Sum 0, 1862",0.0994152046784,"   Friend Walt, I received a letter from you last March and answered it while at Fort Union2, but have never heard from you since. Well here I am camped on a sand bank on the Rio Grande River the weather is hot and we have seen little of the good things of America in the shape of Grub and Clothing but we have a Regament composed of natures Noblemen. we left Denver poorly clothed and equipped in the month of February, marched to Fort Union a distance of four hundred miles in fifteen days, two days we marched forty miles a day and then hearing that the Texans were marching on Fort Union we marched over seventy miles in twenty four hours. I believe that was the best marching made by any Reg in the Service. We being short of provision and destitute of Clothing our men stood it bravely and never murmured.3 The Texans flushed with success having whipped three thousand Regulars and volunteer mexican troops at Fort Craig were marching boldly on towards Fort Union laying the country waste wherever they went. We all eager to try our Reg. marched one hundred miles and met the enemy on their own ground in Apache Country in the mountains   our force of nine hundred theirs of two thousand we fought seven hours some times hand to hand over rocks stumps and trees regular bush whacking Indian fighting the Texans loss was about five hundred killed and wounded, ours about one hundred and eighty we burned sixty of their wagons loaded with provisions, clothing, ammunition and valuables leaving them destitute4 they commenced their retreat the next day we followed a few days after joined Gen Canbys5 force at Alberquerque, drove the ensuing two hundred miles like a flock of sheep At Peralta we had another little battle where we took seven wagons and a number of Prisoners   they said they did not mind fighting Regular troops but there was no use fighting Chivingtons Grey blouse Pikes Peak Sons of bitches so they burned all they had and fled to the mountains making for Texas with all possible speed and I am inclined to believe that they will never have any inclination to come to New Mexico again. Our Colonel Chivington was a Methodist Preacher Presiding elder in Colorado he is about six feet four inches high and built in proportion a first rate fellow and liked by his Regiment. We have marching orders now to join Col Carlton's6 California troops about three hundred miles south of here   I expect we will start in about a week. we are getting tired of lying still although we have our sports, to night we have a swimming match for a purse of $30. they are to swim across the Rio Grande our Boys have built houses for themselves some of mud some of willow and some have dug houses in the bank by the River and live quite comfortable. I am afraid you will not find much in this letter to interest you for I am in no humor for writing to day. I may do better next time   I hope to hear from you before long,   I remain your Friend Lieut Silas S. Soule, Ist Reg Col[orado] Vol[unteer]s In the Field New Mexico  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00586.html," Letter from Lieutenant Silas S. Soule to Walt Whitman ,","Jan 8, 1862",0.100503195974,"   Friend Walt, Perhaps you have forgotten a wild farmer scarecrow and man who used to linger around Thayer & Eldridge Publishers office Boston in the spring of 1860. But he still remembers you and has been waiting very patiently for a volume of Leaves of Grass which was to be sent to Lawrence Kansas. Perhaps you think I am writing rather familiar for almost a stranger and writing to a distinguished poet but I think I have made a sufficient appology and I tell you I have been in the Rocky Mountains for almost two years where every man is an old acquaintance if you never saw him before. When I left Boston I went to Kansas and from there out here among Grizzly bears, Indians, Yankees and almost every other species of man and beast that inhabit the globe. I have lived on venison and I have lived on bread I have gone hungry for many a day and have had plenty to eat for many more, and for all the hard life I have seen it suits me   I like it   I enjoy myself hugely and I think you would do the same. I now hold the position of Ist Lieut of Co K Ist Reg Col[orado] Vols.2 I suppose I shall be soldier for the next few years. I have often heard Leaves of Grass highly spoken of away out here but have never seen a volume and a few days ago the man who has that will not dispose of that possession he brought out with him to this country. I am in an old dog shanty to night away up in the mountains about forty miles from the valley the wind blows a perfect hurricane and it is cold as Greenland. I am writing by the light of a pitch fire for it is past twelve oclock and I must go to bed as I must march for the valley in the morning & dont want you to forget to do this. Good night.   Yours &c  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00314.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Feb 9, 1862",0.104855161159,"  1862 Roanoak Island  North Carolina   Feb 9th  Dear Mother I wrote you last when we arived at Hateras Inlet nearly a month since but dont know as you received it as I hear the leters did not leave there untill we left to come here, which was on Wednesday last,  this island is on Palmico2 Sound about 45 miles from Hateras and is about 12 miles long and 4 wide  we left Hateras with a fleet of about 70 vessels  only 15 or 16 of which was fighting crafts  the rest were tow boats old steamboats and schooners,  we had about 13000 Infantry on board the transports and came to anchor near hear on Thursday afternoon  on Friday Morning we got under way  the gunboats taking the lead and as soon as we got within range the gunboats opened fire on the Batteries [on the shore?] here, and they blazed away back, it was a fine sight  the shells bursting all around the batteries and sending up a column of sand 20 feet high and the Batteries throwing shot and shells like blazes  the Staten Island Ferry boat Hunchback which had some heavy guns on board was shot through and through but she anchored and stuck to it like a good fellow  they kept it up untill dusk and then hauled off for the night About 5 O Clock in the afternoon our regiment landed  one of the gunboats throwing shell to cover us  one of the Mass regts landing just about the same time, we were on boad of an old stern wheel steamboat which took us up so close that we jumped on shore  we had to wade about 200 yards through mud and water up to our knees and then found a spot not very dry but we stoped there for the night  we built fires and tried to dry ourselves as well as we could  took our supers of hard crackers and then laid down for the night. About 11 O Clock it comenced to rain not very hard but enough to make it very unpleasant  I stuck it out until my blanket got wet through, and then got up and stood around the fire until morning  we had breakfast of good crackers, put more crackers in our haversacks and then fell in for a march  we moved off in two Brigades  we being the second numbering all told about 7000 men with a battery of 5 howitzers  we struck directly into the woods and soon heard the firing comence on the right of the first Brigade  we were in a wagon path and all around us was a thick wood almost as thick as the woods around Deer Park3  we kept on, the first Brigade driving the enemy untill we got into a thick swamp where the mud and water was over the top of my boots and the bushes was so thick that we had the greatest difficulty in getting through  we kept on however untill we drove them chock into their Batery which was one of the celabrated masked Bateries we have heard so mutch about  our regiment worked around on their right flank through a thicket that you would think it was imposible for a man to pass through  it was might trying to a fellows nerves as the balls was flying around pretty thick  cutting the twigs off overhead and knocking the bark off the trees all around us, but our regiment behaved finely and pressed on as fast as possible  we were under fire about an hour and a half before our regiment dare fire a shot for fear of shooting our own friends as we could not see 10 yards on either side. As soon as our regt got sight of the Batery Gen Renno4 who is our Brigadeer General gave the order to charge and away we went  the water flying over our heads as we splashed through it  I was in my position on the left flank of our regt when I heard the order to charge so that when I reached the Battery our colors and the flag of the 9th New York and the 21st Mass were planted there  ours were there first however but it was mighty tight between us and the others  when the other regts came in you can bet there was some tall shouting  but there was nary a rebel in sight for as soon as they saw us start on a charge they started to run, one of the rebels lay there dead by his gun  another lay badly wounded  a few feet further in the bushes lay an old man with beard perfectly white, dead, here and there heaps of knapsacks haversacks and clothes guns and amunition  I picked up this paper and envelope inside the Battery and as I wanted a pair of drawers I found a new pair and a lot of hankerchiefs which I lost again  we soon formed again and started after the rebels  quite a number of whome had broke for the shore about a mile off  the way was pretty well strewn with blankets an coats thrown off by the rebels as they ran. a few of them escaped in boats but we got 40 or 50 there  among the rest was Mr. O jennings Wise5 son of Gov Wise of Virginia who was badly wounded and I believe dided to day. he came to the Island yesterday morning with 600 of the noted Wise Legion  he was a fine looking young fellow and plucky, we took these prisoners to a house near by and started off in the woods to look for more game and we found it,  after traveling about an hour we found two dead rebels lying in the woods and farther on lay another just dying  the top of his head being shot off  a little way from these we met a dozen rebels with a white flag  we took care of them and soon met another party with a flag  they said they came from a large force and wanted to make terms for a surender  our general told them unles they made an unconditional surender at once he would order his forces to fire but they had had enough for one day and stacked their arms and wilted without a strugle  they numbered about 1600 men and had cleared a space of a couple of hundred acres of land in the woods and erected splendid barracks for I should think 20,000 men  the buildings have floors and fire places and shingle roofs  I have not counted the buildings but should think there was 75 or 80  some 25 or 30 of which are about 100 feet by 50 and a good many first rate log houses and a large hospital Building  quite a quantity of stores were found in some of the buildings consisting of bacon, rice, crackers  all of which we took peacable posession of and we have slaughtered hogs enough in the woods to keep us all in fresh pork last night and today with a small stock for tomorrow  we are living now like fighting cocks and prisoners have been comeing in and giving themselvs up and squads of them have been taken by our pickets all day so that we must have some 2500 to night  I have seen 1 or 2 Colonels and lots of captain and other Officers among them  they have been working here the prisoners say for the last 5 months puting up these buildings and I give them credit for haveing built tip top quarters  the loss of our regiment was remarkable small  I think not over 10 killed and 10 or 12 wounded  I think the loss on our side not more than 40 killed and 70 or 80 wounded  it is a miracle to me that our loss was so small when I think how the bullets wized around our heads. The enemy had a great advantage in knowing the ground and could pick his position while we had to follow without knowing were we were going  they thought they would tole us up to the Bateries and then slaughter us as they did at Bethell6  they say they did not think we would go in that water and fight  the Batery was made of turf and had 4 guns  we whiped them fair and square on their own ground and they say we are a good deal smarter than they thought we were. It was rather a sickening sight to see the wounded brought along the road but I expected sutch things so that it did not effect me mutch and after a while we would pass them lying in the bushes and think nothing of it  I was as calm and cool during the whole affair as I am at any time and I was perfectly surprised to see how well our troops acted  our Generals too Renno and Foster7 acted first rate  Burnside8 and Pratt9 I believe was not on shore  they were atending to the forts on shore  Pratts Brigade I believe did not land untill the fleet silenced some of the Bateries  the fleet went to work yesterday morning about the same time that we did  knocked tar out of some of the Batteries on the shore and scared the rebels so that they left others before the fleet fired a shot into them  I went down to one of their Batteries this afternoon and was surprised to see how large and well aranged it was  it was made of turf  the parapet which shields the guners being about 15 ft thick and 8 or 9 feet high with embrasures to rain the guns out  it mounted 10 guns  2 of them being 32 pound Parrot guns rifled and the others heavy smoothe bore guns  I could see from there three other Forts  one they say just like the one I was in  another mutch larger and mounting 18 large guns and I believe there are some others that I have not seen  some of them were silenced by the fleet and I supose they it was no use to try to hold the others as we were in the rear of them and we would have been at them if they had staid.  So Mammy I think we done a pretty good days work yesterday marching 15 or 16 miles and fighting with boots filed with water for 4 hours.  Wel Mammy how are you all and whats the news  are you and Mat and the baby and all the rest wel  write to me as soon as ever you can and tell me all the news  I wish Walt if he is home, or Jeff would send me some papers  often it is a great treat to get a sight of a New York Paper  I should like one giveing a discription of the battle  I supose you will see a good acount of it  as I saw 2 or three reporters in the field yesterday, Direct 51 Regt N.Y.V. Burnsides coast division  Roanoak Island  North Carolina  good night Mother G W Whitman The only efects I feel of my work yesterday is a little stiffness in my legs from walking10 "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00587.html," Letter from Lieutenant Silas S. Soule to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 12, 1862",0.109071127431,"   Friend Walt I was very glad to get a letter from you and should have answered it before this but I had to march for New Mexico. Col Canby2 who has command of the Union troops in N.M. has had a terrible encounter3 with Sibley4 of the Texas Rangers. Canby had only eight hundred white men and one Reg of Mexicans under the renowned Kit Carson5. Sibley had three thousand men our white men done all the fighting for the Mexicans broke and ran at the first fire our men fought like tigers one company of Pikes Peak Boys6 was cut to peases only seventeen survived the fight  they emptied thirty five Texas saddles the first fire and loss of killed and wounded was about 225 the Texans about 400 as soon as we heard of the battle we made a forced march to the rescue and marched a Reg of men 350 miles in 14 days we marched 120 miles in three days and 80 miles in 24 hours. I think we made the biggest march on record, we understood that Sibley was making an attack on Fort Union7 the word came to us about sundown after the men had marched 40 miles and had not had their supper and they threw their hats in the air and swore they would march 40 miles farther before they slept and they did  they started off singing the Star spangled banner, Red White & Blue and Yankee doodle  so you can imagine what kind of material this Reg is composed of  we are now at Ft Union without a fight but start in three days to attack Sibley where I expect we shall have as great a battle as ever was known. Soldiering suits me although it is rather rough at present. we have travelled through mountains and plains and seen many amusing things  we have a splendid chance to study human nature for we have all kinds of men in the Reg we are within one hundred miles of Santa Fe which I suppose is taken by the Texans by this time. men women and children and thousands of head of stock arrive here dailey from that country they are all glad to see the soldiers thre or four companies of the 5th infantry Regulars will march with us we go abreast to Santa Fe. I am afraid this letter will not be very interesting for I dont feel like writing   direct to Lieut S.S. Soule 1st Reg Col[orado] Vols Santa Fe New Mexico  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00315.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Mar 16, 1862",0.109615123079,"  Near Newbern  N.C. March 16th 1862 Dear Mother We have given the Secesshers another thundering thrashing, and have gained a splendid victory. I went through the fight and did not get a scratch although the balls fairly rained around me, and several of our boys were struck down close by my side. I suppose you will get a great deal better acount of the fight, than I can give you (from the papers) but I know you will want to hear my account of it  so here it is. We left Roanoke Island March 11th and landed 16 or 18 miles below this place on the 13th. As soon as troops were all on shore we pushed on as fast as possible towards Newbern which is a nice little Citty lying up the Neuse river about 25 miles from Pamlico Sound. Our land force was about 10,000 men with 2 batteries of artilary, and the fighting part of the fleet consisted of 10 or 12 gunboats. After marching through the woods 4 or five miles we struck a railroad track leading into the citty which we followed 3 or 4 miles and as it was then getting dusk the General ordered a halt for the night,  it rained nearly all night and as we lay on the ground our blankets soon got soaked through so that we passed rather an uncomfortable night, although I managed to get 5 or 6 hours good sound sleep. The next morning we were up at daylight and after discharging and reloading our rifles which had got pretty well soaked during the night we marched on towards Newbern. We had skirmishers extending about a quarter of a mile on each side of the railroad and we had not gone more than 3 or 4 miles before they came upon the rebels in strong force behind breastworks, as usual. (We marched right up under a terible fire, formed in line of battle and went at them and fought them in splendid Style for about 3 hours, when our boys drove them from their entrenchments and the day was ours.)2 Our men had 60 rounds of Catridge each when they went into action and had used it nearly all and were just about to fall back to let the 51st Pennsylvania Regt take our places (as they had not been in the fight at all) when the enemy run. Our regt went into the fight with about 650 men and as we lost about 100 in killed and wounded you may know that we had pretty hot work. One young fellow (Bob Smith Orderly Sergt of Co B.) that was killed lived in Portland Ave (in one of the brick houses below the vacant lots I think)  He was a member of Capt Spragues3 Co in the old 13th Regt and was a good fellow and an intimate friend of mine. During the fight, I saw our Leiut Col. R.B. Potter4 sitting on a log,   thinking he was wounded, I went up to him and asked him if he was struck, he said only with a spent ball that did not hurt him mutch, and he got up and went into the thickest of it again and did not give up untill the fighting was over which was an hour after I spoke to him, when he found a ball had struck him just above the hip and passed through his side. He is not dangerously hurt and I hope will soon be well. After the fight I found our Major C. Legendre5 lying in the mud behind a log, where he had been carried after he fell,   he is very badly hurt  a ball haveing struck him in the back of the neck passing out of his cheek,   I took off the rubber blanket that I had straped on my back  put him on it, got some help and carried him about a quarter of a mile to a tent where he now lies in a very critacle condition,   The Chaplain6 of our regt was killed. one Captain wounded (probaly mortaly) one Leiut killed. one Leiut had a leg taken off and 2 other Leiuts was shot through the Leg. we had 3 orderly Sergts killed and some 16 or 18 privates. I dont know what the total loss on our side is but should think about 450 killed and wounded. The rebel loss is pretty heavy but I dont beleive they lost more than us as they were well protected by their breastworks  I was talking to a darkey to day who says he saw several car loads of their killed and wounded pass through Newbern, and they left quite a number on the feild. After they retreated a part of our force followed them up but they had set fire to a bridge about 3/8 of a mile long, on which the cars cross, the river and it was some time before our folks could get boats and cross into the city, which they found nearly deserted and fired in three or four places but it did not burn mutch and we have made a good haul of Government Stores  got posession of a nice little citty that had 5 or 6000 inhabitants I beleive before they ran away. Our regt marched slowly up to the river (as we were pretty well tired) but we could not cross so we spread our blankets on the ground and had a good nights sleep,   the next morning we came to this camp, which is on the bank of the river and about 1½ miles from Newbern. The first Brigade are quartered in the City. We are very comfortably situated and will probaly stay here for some time and take it easy as our boys are pretty well used up. I went down on the battle ground yesterday and when I saw the almost impregnability of the enemys position I was almost scared. They had a chain of breastworks leading from the river, away back in the woods I dont know how far   I followed them about 2 miles and as I could not see the end I turned back,   The trees all around where our regt was engaged are perfectly riddled with balls and nearly all the small ones are cut entirely off. The enemys works on the side of the railroad where our Brigade fought, were so situated that we could not charge them, without getting up to our necks in water and they had cut down the trees and had them lying so that it was almost impassable. The feild yesterday, was quite a sight,   the dead had nearly all been buried but there were some 12 or 15 that I saw, that were not. quite a number of the enemys canon were scattered here and there and horses, that were used to draw them were lying about in the entrenchments,   From the best information I can get the enemy had more men than us and if they could not whip us with all the advantages they had in this fight they had better give it up. The nigers all say that the name of Burnsides expedition is a terror to their masters. The fleet after setting us on shore sailed up the river and walked into the rebels shore batteries in fine style  the rebels had sunk vessels all across the river but our boats got through somehow and drove them out of 4 or 5 Splendid batteries  some of them bomb proof at that. The last letter I received from home, Mother, is dated Feb 19th   I do wish some of you would write oftener,   I had some papers too by the same mail but the last two mails have brought nothing for me. We have not been paid since the First of January, but expect to be soon. Mutch Love to all   G. W. Whitman March 18th   I have not had a chance to send this letter yet but hear that the mail leaves tomorrow. I hear to night that the first Brigade leaves tomorrow on some expedition probaly to atack Beauford,7   our regt is not to go. Another mail arived here yesterday but brought me no letter, and I feel just like giveing you a good scolding, but I guess I will wait untill I get home,   I recd 2 papers however. Yours V T   G W Whitman  I wrote you a letter a day or two after we took Roanoke Island, did you get it.8  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/wcu.00001.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Mary Elizabeth Whitman ,","Mar 19, 1862",0.110023119815,"  Near Newbern N.C. March 19th 1862  Dear Sister Hearing that a mail leaves here today I have only time to write a few lines to let you know that I am well and hearty. Tell Han we have given the rebels another licking and won a splendid victory. I went through the fight and did not get a scratch although the balls rained around me for over two hours, and several of our boys were struck down close to my side. We left Roanoke Island March 11th and landed about sixteen miles below Newbern (which is, or was a city of some 6,000 inhabitants) on the 13th and took up the line of march. After marching 8 or 10 miles through the woods, a halt was ordered as it was getting dark and we passed rather an uncomfortable night as it rained pretty hard and our blankets soon got soaked through. We got up at daylight on the morning of the 14th, marched 4 or 5 miles, when we came upon the enemy in strong forces behind breastworks as usual. We marched up under a terrible fire, formed line of battle, and at it we went. The enemy were posted in an almost impregnable position, but after 3 hours hard fighting (during which time our boys had crept nearer and nearer to the enemy's works) the rebels ran and the day was ours. Our regiment suffered pretty bad, we had only about 651 men when we went into the fight, and lost about 100 in killed and wounded, among whom was some of my intimate friends. One young fellow (named Bob Smith, Orderly Sergeant Co. 13) was shot through the heart, he lived in Portland Ave. near Mother. Among the badly wounded is our Lieutenant Colonel R. B. Potter, shot through the side. I asked him at the time if he was hurt, he said nothing to speak of (and did not give up for an hour after that). After the fight I found our Major LeGendre lying in the mud, a ball had struck him in the back of the neck and passed out through his cheek. I took off the blanket that I had strapped to my back, laid him on it, got some help and carried him about a quarter of a mile to a tent where he now lies in a very critical condition. We had one captain, one lieutenant, 3 orderly sergeants, our Chaplain, and 16 or 18 privates killed. Lieutenant Carrington had a leg taken off. He was by my side when he was struck and was an intimate friend of mine. Two other lieutenants were shot through the leg. I don't know what our total loss is but should think about 450 killed and wounded.1 I think the enemy lost about the same number. The battle was on each side of a railroad leading into the city and we knew they carried off a good many of their killed and wounded in cars. Immediately after the fight a front of our force started in pursuit, but the rebels had set fire to a bridge which crosses a river about .9 of a mile wide. Our troops finally crossed in a boat and found the city nearly deserted and fired in 3 or 4 places. The fires did not do much damage however and most of our troops are now quartered there. Our regiment marched slowly up to the river and as our boys were about lived out we spread our blankets on the ground and passed the night there. We are now encamped on the banks of the river about 2 miles from the city and we have things very comfortable. We will probably stay here for some time. The enemy had tremendous advantages over us and as they had more men engaged than we had, they ought to have cut us to pieces as they have spent months and months fortifying and getting ready for us. After we were landed from the ships, our gunboats went up and drove the rebels out of 4 or 5 splendid short batteries so that our victory is complete. We have taken quite a number of canon, and to day a part of our force leaves here to take another small city lying on the coast. The last letter I received from home was dated February 19th and I have had none from you since I left Annapolis. I wrote you soon after our fight at Roanoke. Did you get the letter? Write immediately please.  G. W. WhitmanDirect 2nd Brigade Burnside Expedition Newbern N.C.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00588.html," Letter from Ellen Eyre to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 25, 1862",0.110839113287,"  Tuesday Mar 25 1862 Walt Whitman  My dear Mr. Whitman I fear you took me last night for a female privateer. It's true that I was sailing under false colors.   But the flag I assure you covered nothing piratical   although I would joyfully have made your heart a captive. Women have an unequal chance in this world. Men are its monarchs, and ""full many a rose is born to blush unseen and waste its sweetness in the desert air.""2 Such I was resolved should not be the fate of this fancy I had long nourished for you.   A gold mine may be found by the Divining Rod but there is no such instrument for detecting in the crowded streets of a great city the [unknown?] mine of latent affection a man may have unconsciously inspired in a woman's heart. I make these explanations in extenuation not by way of apology. My social position enjoins precaution & mystery, and perhaps the enjoyment of my friend's society is heightened which in yielding to its fascination I preserve my incognito; yet mystery lends an ineffable charm to love and when a woman is bent upon the gratification of her inclinations   She is pardonable if she still spreads the veil of decorum over her actions. Hypocrisy is said to be ""the homage which sin pays to virtue,"" and yet I can see no vice in that generous sympathy with which we share our caprices with those who have inspired us with tenderness,    I trust you will think well enough of me soon to renew the pleasure you afforded me last P.M., and I therefore write to remind you that there is a sensible head as well as a sympathetic heart, both of which would gladly evolve wit & warmth for your direction & comfort.   You have already my whereabouts & my hours   It shall only depend upon you to make them yours and me the happiest of women.  I am always Yours sincerely, Ellen Eyre  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00316.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Apr 12, 1862",0.113287093703,"  Newbern  April 12/62 Dear Mother I received a letter dated March 30th and some papers from you a few days since, also a letter from Han & Charlie  they are well and seem to get along very good. Mother you dont know how glad I was to hear from you all. The last three or four mails had brought nothing for me and I began to think quite strange, but as you say you have sent me two or three letters I suppose the fault must be with the mail arangements. We have moved our camp since my last letter and are now on the Newbern side of the Trent river,  we have a splendid camp of new Sibley tents clean as a pin and pitched in a fine dry healthy spot on the outskirts of the Citty. Burnside1 is fortifying here and I supose intends to make this a depot for supplies. after the fortifications are finished he will probaly leave one or two regts here to man them, and go with the rest to take possession of Goldsborough which is quite an important place on acount of its railroad communication with the south. Reinforcements of two regts from N.Y.  one from Maryland  one from Penn. and one or two from Mass. have arived here within the last few days and I believe more are expected to join us soon. I dont know what regts will be left here but think likely we shall stay, as the talk is that our Col has been promoted to a Brigadier Gen. and our Leiut Col. and Major have gone home, badly wounded,  besides our regt is pretty well reduced in numbers by sickness and killed & wounded in action so that we will likely be left here until the wounded who have gone home on Furlough join us. I have been promoted too Mamy  at least I have been apointed Second Leiut in Co D  the commission of course has to come from Gov Morgan,2 but Burnside has sent on the apointment for confirmation so the commission will come all right.3 A day or two after the battle of Roanoke Col. Ferero4 came to me and said he would soon give me a chance, but as there was no vacancies of course he could do nothing until the battle of Newberne gave him a chance to fulfill his promise. My apointment dates from the 14th of March, the day of the battle of Newberne. There has been a great deal of figuring for positions in this regt  some of the Leiuts paying as high as 3 or $400 for the place but I never asked for it, and feel a great deal better satisfied than if I had bought it. Our Captain is a young man from Buffalo N.Y. named Hazard5 whose father is very rich and we live in fine style I tell you. Cap has bread made in the Citty and buys lots of eggs, fish Oysters chickens, milk and everything else he can see. We have three nigger boys to cook and wait on us, but Cap can afford it so I dont care, Our first Leiut, Francis is a first rate fellow6 so I have tip top times. We were paid off day before yesterday up to the first of March,  I received $42  I had to buy lots of new things and have spent nearly all my money. The paymaster says we will be paid again the first of next month. Mother if you want money before that time, let me know and I will borrow some and send you. I hope to send you a good lot after next pay as I get $103 a month  so Mamy I hope the good time is comeing when we will have plenty of soap. If Jeff has any money to spare you might borrow some from him and I will send you some to pay him as soon as we get our next pay. Adams Express Co have an agency here and if we stay here I shal send home what money I can spare, and you can use what you want, and put the rest in the bank. One good thing in haveing a commission is if a fellow gets sick or tired of sogering he can resign and go home to his Mamy. Mother you must take things easy and not fret,  how I should like to see you all,  Siss I supose is almost big enough to go to School  it seems a long time since I have seen any of you. I wish some of you would write every week. Tell Jeff and Walt and Bunkum to write often Matt how comes on the Sewing Machines or has the war busted up the buisness.7 Mother I will write again in a few days So good bye and mutch love to all G. W. W."
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00317.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Apr 27, 1862",0.115327077383,"  Newbern N.C.   Sunday night  April 27th /62 Dear Mother and all the rest, As I hear there will be a chance to send letters home in the morning, I write to let you know that I am well and hearty  We are haveing good times here and are a great deal better situated than we have been at any time since we left New York  I wrote you a letter a couple of weeks since (which I suppose you received) telling you of my appointment to a second Leiutenancy in Co D. I like the position first rate and am getting along very well indeed, and as the pay is good, I am glad both on my own acount and yours, Mamy. I hope to send you something nice next pay, which will be due on the first of May, but we will probaly not be paid until the 10th or 12th of the month. There has been a great deal of talk about the enemys makeing an attack on us here, but I think we are just about as safe here as we would be in Brooklyn,  we have a large breastwork nearly finished just in front of our Camp built by darkies hired by the government and intended to mount 18 or 20 heavy guns of which 10 or 12 are already in position, and as the trees fences and everything has been cleared away to give the guns a clear sweep for a mile in front of the breastworks I think the rebels will be mighty careful how they come within range, although they promised to drive us away from here two or three weeks ago. Our pickets are thrown out eight or ten miles from the Citty and have had several brushes with a regt of rebel Cavalry, but our boys soon taught them not to come to close, to our lines, and for the last week they have not come close enough to exchange shots. Our Division has just won another victory at Fort Macon as you will see by the papers,  the fighting was all done by Artillary so that our regt did not have a chance to mix in. I have just seen one of our boys who came up from there to day,  he says the rebels made a pretty good fight holding out for 12 hours untill our side had dismounted 27 of their guns and killed 8 or 10 of their men and wounded quite a number. The loss on our side was one killed and two wounded. Fort Macon is about 35 miles from here and was considered to be a very ugly place to take,  it was built by Uncle Sam (you know) and seized by the rebels,  we have bagged two or three hundred more prisoners by the operation as they had no chance to get away, and take it all togather it is quite a big thing for our side. We are very anxious to hear from McClellan1 and expect soon to hear of a splendid victory at Yorktown. I received a couple of papers a few days ago but nary a letter did I get. I have not heard from home in almost a month. Mother you dont know how bad it makes a fellow feel to have a mail arive and bring him no letter. I wish some of you would write every week if only to say that you are all well. We expect a mail in tomorrow and if I dont get a letter I shall feel quite disapointed. We do not expect to leave here very soon. Well Mother it is getting late and rather chilly writing here in my tent so I must stop and go to bed. Good night dear Mother  I will write again soon  mutch Love to Mat and Sis, Jess, Walt, Bunkum, Jeff and Eddy Leiut G. W. W. Co D. 51st Regt. N.Y.V."
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00589.html," Letter from Fred Vaughan to Walt Whitman ,","May 2, 1862",0.116007071943," Walt, I am to be marri'd tomorrow, Saturday at 3 o'cl at 213 W. 43rd St.   near 8th Ave. I shall have no show! I have invited no company.    I want you to be there.    Do not fail please, as I am very axious you should come.      Truly yours,   Fred  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00318.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","May 12, 1862",0.117367061064,"  12th/62 Head Quarters 51st Regt  Newbern  May     Dear Mother I am Officer of the guard again to night and as I have nothing particular to do for the next two hours I may as well have a little talk with you. Well Mamy how are you to night, and how is Mat and Sis and all the rest of the folkses  does your wrists trouble you any now a days, and are you as fat and handsome as ever,  I suppose you still live in the same house,  does Mrs Brown live with you yet,1 or aint you boss of the institution, this year. I am mighty anxious to know how you have things aranged. I am perfectly well and hearty, the weather here is fine and the men generaly are pretty healthy. The news from New Orleans2 and in fact from all parts of the Union keeps us all in good spirits so that we get along first rate. We have been reinforced within the last week by a Regt of Cavelry and a battery of light artillary with eight rifled guns, so we are about ready to advance, if there is any advanceing to be done in this part of the world  I would not be surprised if we were to move somewhere inland, on the railroad runing from Richmond through this State and leading down South somewhere I dont know where. But it seems to me if we could stop the retreat of the varmints and let McClelland3 have a chance to get his name up it would bee about the thing. We have not been paid off yet Mother but we expect to be in a very few days,  just as soon as I get my money I will send you 50 or 60$ by Adams Express,  the paymaster is here and he is looking for the money to arive every day. The 1st Leiut of our Co whose name is Francis,4 has a wife in Burlington Vt  he wrote to her to call on Han  So I expect to hear from her   Soon. It is now three or four weeks since I have heard from home, but we expect a mail in a day or two and then I hope to hear from you all. What is the reason Walt or Jeff does not write to me once in a while. You dont know how glad I am to hear from you and I feel quite out of Sorts, to have a mail come and bring nothing for me. Good Night MotherG W Whitman Co D. 51st N.Y.V."
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00859.html," Letter from James Redpath to Walt Whitman ,","May 26, 1862",0.119271045832," (8   3) [Boston] May 26, [186]2 Whitman, poet, Brooklyn, N.Y. Dear Walt     I find that the plates of The Leaves of Grass are now the property of a person named   Wentworth,2 whose residence is Warren Place, Roxbury. I do not care to know him. Suppose you write to him.  I have no doubt you could arrange to have a new edition published by or through him. This is the first chance I have had to find out about it since I saw you   for I have only been home a week.  Yours Truly James Redpath  Whenever you feel like writing, I shall be glad to have a line or any number of lines from you.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00319.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jun 1, 1862",0.120087039304,"  Camp Reno  Newbern N.C. June 1st/62 Dear Mother How are you all to night,  the last letter I received from home (dated May 15) you was not well Mother, and I have been quite uneasy about you, Andrew too was under the weather, but I hope you are both entirely well by this time, Jeff I supose is kept pretty buisy with the work you speak of,  Matt and Sis, I hope are flourishing as usual,  Jess you say, is about the same as when I came away,  Walt holds his own I hope, and Tobias can eat his full rations I spect. Every thing here is about the same as when I last wrote,  I am hearty as ever and take things prety easy, and comfortable this hot weather. It is pretty warm here but we do not suffer any yet,  we are encamped on the bank of the Trent River, so that we have plenty of fresh water which is a great thing in an encampment,  I have no idea how long we shall stay here, we have been all ready to leave two or three times, but the orders were countermanded so here we are yet. We were paid off day before yesterday and I send you five dollars by this,  I will send you 25 or 30 by expres which will leave here in a day or two. I send this because I think you will get it sooner than you would by expres. The boys in our company gave me quite a surprise yesterday. I was in my tent, washing and geting ready to go on parade, when our Orderly Sergeant came to my tent and said some of the men wanted to see me out at their quarters  I suposed there was some little difficulty they wanted me to settle but when I got there I found the Company all formed in line and all hands seemed in mighty good humor by the way they grined, and one of them went into his tent and brought out a splendid sword and sash, sword belt, shoulder knots, sword knot, and everything complete, and gave them to me, in behalf of the company. I was quite taken aback I tell you as it was done so quietly that I was taken by surprise and my being in the company such a short time, that it was the last thing that I expected. I hear to day by one of our men who has just come on from New York that the three months troops are all ordered out for another three Months service, what the deuce are they going to do with all the sogers. I fell quite anxious about Hallecks army at Corinth1 although I guess if the leading Officers are what they ought to bee there is not mutch danger. McCleland2 seems to be working rather Slowly but very surely in Virginia. I am not particularly anxious for a fight, but I should kinder like to be there when the big fight comes off at Richmond Well Mother it is about time for me to turn in,  Let me hear from you as soon as you get this. I got a couple of papers to day from home. So good night to all, and be sure and write often G. W. Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00320.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jun 9, 1862",0.1211750306,"  Newbern N.C.   June 9th/62 Dear Mother I have just received your letter of June 4th and hope you will write me oftener, I sent you a letter containing five dollars 5 or 6 days ago which I supose you received   I also sent you thirty dollars by Adams Express. Please write if you received it all right. Everything here remains quiet,  I am perfectly well and get along first rate. The Captain of our company1 has a Wife, staying at his Brothers in Burlington Vermont,  he has writen to her saying I had a Sister there, and asking her to call and see her,  he received a letter to night from his wife saying, that she had been there two or three times  once Han and Heyde were out  the next time she saw Heyde who said that he and Han would call and see her,  this was a Month or 6 weeks ago,  She says in her letter that Han has never called and I am quite certain that Heyde never told Han any thing about Mrs Fancis, calling, or she would have went to see her, as she could have heard from me every week. Mrs. Francis also says that she has heard from some of Hans friends that Heyde does not treat her very well but she wrote for him not to say any thing about that to me. Mother I wish you would write to Han asking her to come home and if she wants money to come home with   I will send it to her  I want her to come very much  if I could get away I would go myself to Burlington on purpose to give that little Cuss Heyde a good square kicking. Mother dont fail to write to Han immediately and try and get her to come home and stay. If you think it would be better for Walt to go on there and see how things are I will send him some money if he will go, and then he can bring Han back if things are as we susspect. Mother you dont say any thing about your cold in the letter I got to night so I hope you are entirely over it. So Bunkum has gone Sogering too has he,2 well they will have good times in Baltimore for it seems to me this war is about played out,  I have been rather doubtful about Corinth3 but it seems Halleck has cleared them out of there, and if Mac,4 does the clean thing at Richmond I dont see what hope will be left them I told you in my last letter of the splendid present the boys of our company made me  I am very proud of it I tell you  We have had a couple of as pretty flags as I ever saw presented to the Regt  one by the Ladies of New York and one by the City.  The New York Comon Concill when they appropriated the money for the flag they gave us said something about our exchanging (the flag that we have carried ever since we left New York) for the new one,  the Colonel one day when the Regt was out on drill, stated the case to the Boys and asked if they would exchange,  the boys let up such a yell as convinced the Colonel that the City would have a good time getting that old Flag. It has 15 or 20 bullet holes in it and the staff was shot into at Newbern, and we think a great deal of it. Well Mother I beleive that is all all I have got to say. So good night and Much Love to all Lieut G. W. Whitman Co D          51st Regt N.Y.V."
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00321.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jun 29, 1862",0.12389500884,"  Camp Potter  Newbern N.C. June 29th /62 Dear Mother You see by this that we are still here at Newbern, but I think by the appearance of things, that we will leave here in the course of a few days. We have orders to be ready to start at short notice, but there is no deffinite time for us to leave mentioned in the orders, which looks to me as though it was intended for us to wait until the ball is fairly opened at Richmond, and then I think we will make a rush on Goldsborough or Kingston1 or some of the rest of the interior towns in this State. We know nothing certain however of our destination but wherever we go the Rebels had beter Skedaddle for the Burnside Expedition does not stop for trifles. I received your letter dated June 14th  also one from Walt dated June 10th and expected to get one by the mail which arived here yesterday but nary a letter was there for me. I got several papers houever. Mother I wrote to you a few days ago about Han's comeing home,  I hope you received the letter and have writen to her. You ask me to write if Capt Savage is here,  you dont say what Regt he belongs to,  there is no such man in this Regt, (or is he in the Naval Service[?]) and I have never heard of him about here. Mother I wish we could be paid before we leave here as it is so handy to send money from this place  there will be two months pay due me, day after tomorrow and I intend to send home 125 dollars or more, so you must not let Money maters trouble you at all. Has Andrew writen to you since he went Sogering.2 Poor Bunkum  I wonder how he is getting along,  what Co is he in  I wish he would write to me. Well Mother it is now after 11 Oclock at night and I begin to feel sleepy so I will stop writing and go to sleep. So good night Mother. Give my love to all, and write soon. G. W. Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00322.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jul 11, 1862",0.125526995784,"  Newport News  Virginia   July 11th/62 Dear Mother You see by this that we have again moved our Camp. Word came to us at Newbern on the 1st of July that they were fighting in front of Richmond and we were ordered to strike tents and go on board of Trasports at daylight on the morning of July 2d. We were quite surprised to get orders to go on board of Transports for we were under orders to march at short notice leaveing our tents standing and not to take anyone that was not able to stand a long and rapid march  I think Burnside1 was just about ready to walk through North Carolina when this affair hapened at Richmond which upset all his plans for the present.2 We left Newbern July 2d  our regiment was put on board a steamer called the Ellen Terry which was hardly large enough to accomodate half the number we had on board, and I prefered to sleep on deck in the rain and get a good soaking, rather than to sleep below  Just after I had laid down on the deck one of the men came on deck  walked along opposite to where I lay, and jumped overboard,  we lowered a boat but could not get him as he never came to the top of the water at all,  he was a Sergeant belonging to Co.K. and was a very steady good soldier. During the night another man belonging to Co. A. either jumped or fell overboard and was drowned. We arived and came to anchor at Hatteras Inlet on the afternoon of July 3d and there we were told that McClellans forces were in Richmond and we were ordered back to Newbern, where we arived on the afternoon of July 4th. next day we pitched our tents on the old camp ground and we had just got them pitched when we were ordered to strike them at daylight on the morning of the 6th and go on board the steamer  We arived at Fortress Monroe which is about 10 miles from here July 8th were we lay until the afternoon of the 9th when we came here and pitched our camp  The masts of the frigate Cumberland are about half out of the water, she lays just opposite our camp about 300 yards from the shore,  the wreck of the Congress lies just below  she was set on fire you know after she was captured by the Merimack,3  This seems to be a very healthy pleasant place and I think very likely we shall remain here some time unless they make another attack on Gen McClellan when we will probaly take a hand in the game. The last letter I received from you Mother is dated June 14th  I got one from Walt of June 10th but we expect a mail here in the course of a day or two when I shall probaly hear from you. I suppose the last letter you sent has gone to Newbern but it will come back here in a day or two. I wrote you a couple of days before we left Newbern and will write often. I have been bothered considerably with some sort of a rash which broke out in blotches nearly as large as my hand all over my arms and body  it burns very bad, the Doctor said it was the effects of the heat, and I supose it was  anyhow it has all disapeared now and I have not felt it for two or three days. (Direct your letters Burnside Expedition Newport News)  part of our forces are still at Newbern.      My Love to all.         Good Night Mother              G W Whitman  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00323.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jul 21, 1862",0.126886984904,"  Camp Lincoln, Newport News Va   July 21st /62 Dear Mother. Your letter dated July 16th came all right but the one you speak of haveing sent previous, I have never received. We are still laying on our oars here, keeping as cool as possible. The weather most of the time is pretty comfortable but once in a while we have a real old scorcher for a day or two. We get the New York papers here the next day after they are printed so that we keep pretty well posted in regard to the News in York. I thought by your letter that you appeared to be rather discouraged with the way the war is progresing. I dont see any thing very discouraging. Mc had to give way its true but it appears quite certain that the enemys loss was considerable more than ours and he1 must be in a position to take good care of himself or we would not be left here doing nothing, and I dont believe any man could have taken the force he had and done any better than he did,  so you see I have strong faith in McCleland if he did have to fall back.2 Troops arive here everyday  the force that got licked down at James Island3 are here  among which are the celabrated 79th the Scotchmen you know, and the 8th Michagan who have the name of being a first rate fighting Regiment  and when Mc gets ready for another move and has the Burnside crowd to back him he will walk into Richmond just as easy as roling off a log. Well Mamy we have not been paid yet but we are looking for the paymaster every day,  we expect to get our money the last of this week and I shall send you about $125 just as soon as I get it  we have to pay pretty dear for everything we get to eat here. I am perfectly well now although I was a little under the weather the first week I came here  my eyes and face were as yellow as Jeffs whiskers used to be,  the doctor thought I had the Jaundice but it did not amount to much and  I am all right now  I think after we get paid I shall try and go down to see Bunkum at Suffolk4 but I dont know certain as I can get away. If Jeff aint too buisy he might take a run down here  it would not cost much for him or Walt to get on board one of the transports that come to Fortress Monroe from New York and there is a boat that runs from the Fort here. I did not a word from home from the 14th of June until the other day when I got your letter of the 16 of July  I felt quite downhearted every time a mail arived and brought me no letter  I wish some of you would write oftener just to let me know how you are all geting along. Well Mother it is time to turn in so I must bid you good night. My Pious regards to all the family and good night to all. G.W. Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00324.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Aug 17, 1862",0.130558955528,"  Near Cedar Mountains Va Sunday August 17th 1862 Dear Mother We have made another move, and are now stoping about 6 miles from Culpepper Court House, and near where the late fight took place between Banks & Jackson.2 We left Frederickburg about 8 Oclock in the evening of August 12th and marched until 4 Oclock next morning when we stoped and had 3 or 4 hours sleep, and started on again. we marched about 38 miles altogether but as we had a baggage train of about 30 wagons [we?] could not get along very fast. when we arived here the fight was over and old Stonewall had skedadled back in the mountains, pretty badly licked too, as near as I can find out.3 This is as handsome a country as I ever saw,  we find plenty of forage in the shape of Beef, Chickens, eggs, potatoes, and the way the cattle and sheep have suffered since we have been here is a caution to secesh farmers,  some of our boys go to a house where there is a sheep dog, take the dog and make him catch as many sheep as they want, and bring them in and cook them, and you may be sure the yankees get some tall cussing from the farmers. The weather here is splendid,  the days are no hotter than in Brooklyn and the last three or four nights have been plenty cool enough,  We brought no tents with us and I am so used to sleepi[ng?]out on the ground that I don't know as I could sleep in a house at all. I can sleep out in the rain and not get the least cold or feel any worse for it, so Mother you must know that I am pretty toughf and hearty  There is a large number of Troops about here and we shall probaly move on in the course of a day or two  the troops all seem to be in the best of health & spirits. The 14th are somewhere about here but we change about so often its hard work to keep track of any one.4 It is quite a long while since I have heard from any of you, but I expect letters for us to have to go a long way before they find us. I sent you 40$5 by Express which I supose you received. I write this sitting on the ground, under a thundering great big oak tree that shades about an acre of ground. Mother I think after the war is over we will buy our little farm down here at the foot of these mountains, and retire from active service. It is now about time for dress parade so I must knock off and get ready  I dont believe I shall have a chance to write you very often as there will be no way of getting to the post office but I will write as often as there is a chance to send letters which may be oftener than I supose as I know nothing about where we shall go Direct my letters to Cullpepper Court House Much Love to allG. W. Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00590.html," Letter from W. W. Thayer to Walt Whitman ,","Aug 31, 1862",0.132462940296,"  Sunday Night Aug 31/62  My Dear Walt, I feel just like writing to you.  In fact I have often & often yearned to write you, Even if I could not visit you.  But I have gone through every thing since last I saw your glorious self in bodily form.  I together with my dear wife have had lots of hard experiences   ill health, sickness of children and my own hard labor to keep soul and body together.  Then the ""what might have been"" cling to me and like a premature old man I dwell with bitterness upon the past.  ""Leaves of Grass"" why oh! why had we to leave thee to the tender mercies of the ignorant, the unfeeling, the unpoetic, the vulgar2!  When I look at the copy of the ""Leaves"" on our parlor table I internally cry Oh Walt.  Then I swear I'll write You, and there   I am called away to do some other thing   of labor & leave pleasure, ~  Since the failure of T&E, I was out of business five months & then obtained a clerkship in the Boston Post Office where I have worked very hard, and suffered much mentally incapacitating me for writing reading or thinking.  So I have lived only to work, eat, sleep, &c.     I now work all night 11 to 7 & sleep daytimes.  I have been enjoying a vacation which only the want of money prevented my spending in York, as tonight is my last night at home.  I improve the chance to write you, for who knows when I may get another to talk, to you or with you?  ~  You doubtless have wondered why I have not written you but I have thought enough about you.  How I do wish I could meet you, and feel your big magnetism by touching your grasping hand. We moved from Forest Hill to Boston where we occupied a big brick house till we had to leave because of the children's health. We now have a cozy house in Cambridgeport with yard room and plenty of fine air. T&E affairs remain at a stand.  The assignees have eaten up all the assets as near as I can learn. They sold all the stock to Wentworth taking his notes which are not paid.  He fiddles along so I hear3.  As I am much confined at the post office or at home asleep or exhausted, I find but little opportunity to know all that transpires.  I heard that some friend of yours tried to buy ""Leaves of Grass"" plates for $200 & Wentworth refused to sell.  Since which I have heard that he regretted his refusal and was anxious to sell.  Wentworth has been at the bottom of all our troubles since failure by embittering the creditors against us so that they would not settle with us or allow us to compromise & continue in business.  But that is now passed. T&E sign boards at still kept at the old stand to tell me of ""what might have been.""  But even if we had you on we would have had a severe struggle through this bloody war to sustain our business4.  ~  Eldridge is in Washington as clerk to an army Paymaster.  He does not want to return to Boston to live.  I wish I could get out of it.  I lead a miserable life now I assure you, save that which I enjoy in my home.  I have uncongenial companions to work with in the office, who though externally good, are internally nobodies, with minds that have fed on husks, they present but poor incentives to one who would enjoy true refinement of soul, or purity of thought, or thought downright earnest sturdy thought of any kind.  Poor fellows!  They have hard work & disagreeable & I must not blame them, for I believe it is the nature of the employment that stultifies.  For I think that I myself have got ""slunk,"" and have not very exalted ambitions now, although please understand, your old ""fanatic"" of the concern of T&E is by no means crushed.  He only wants his time to rise.  The Post master is a good friend to me so I must not complain for without my clerkship, God only knows how I could have supported the dear ones at home.  My friends told me my chance for a berth in the P.O. was one in a thousand.  I told them I would take that chance.  I set to work & got the position.  ""Faint heart never won fair lady"" & O. here I am in Government service & not liable to military draft.     But I would volunteer if I had no wife & babies.  My heart is in the war & I ache to do something.  But I can't.  I work hard & have to eat & sleep to recuperate & even then have no brain left for use in social converse with old friends.  As this is sort of half of himself letter you won't expect much of a composition.  I wanted to write to you.  I care not to say much, nor go into the war that prolific theme of blood and blunders nor give you news, nor anything else.  I only wanted to tell you I ""still live"" & hope you do too so that you can write me a return note when you get into the mood.  Saturday Sept 6/62  Here now is a sample of my procrastination.  To day, Saturday & this letter unfinished.  Never mind.  If you can please write me.  Is there any news.  Hows Bohemia and its Queen the charming Ada?5 She talks with us every week in the Leader in articles that vivify and I love to read.  By the bye Mrs. Thayer hopes to visit York sometime in October if she can find a good person to take care of the ""babies"" in her absence.  We have a ""youngest"" a year old who is a nobleman and beauty who must have a good nurse in order that his mother may enjoy her visit free from care.  If she goes she will remain in N.Y. probably a fortnight and will certainly call on her friend Ada Clare & certainly will not fail to see Walt Whitman   our old Walt who is very dear to us.     Regards to all friends.      Yours Truly  William W. Thayer  Please direct your letter to me Boston Post Office.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00326.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman , 5","Sep 0, 1862",0.132462940296, The 14th of Brooklyn have lost very heavy  among the killed are Captains Davey and Mallery.2  Joe Grummond3 is wounded in the leg. I saw Joe a short time before he was hit and after he was wounded he was carried through the lines of our Regt. It was very discouraging to us as we lay on the hill to see hundreds of men leave their regiments without being hurt at all and some 2 or 300 wounded were either carried or walked through our ranks going to the rear. I think we was completely out generald4  the most of our men was good enough but I think that they was badly handled. Mother I have just received a letter from you dated August 16th which is the only word I have had from home since we left Fredericksburg. We shall probably encamp here for a few days to recruit up a little and I hope you will write to me as soon as you get this. Mother do not feel the least uneaisiness about me as I never was heartier or ruggeder in my life. I am getting tired so good bye to all  I will write again soon5 Much Love to allG. W. W.
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00325.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Sep 5, 1862",0.133142934857,"  Washington D.C.   Sept 5th/62 Dear Mother We arived here about 4 Oclock this morning after marching 12 or 14 miles during the night and are pretty well tired out I tell you. I sent you a few lines day before yesterday to let you know that I was safe and sound, but as I have heard that no letters have been sent from here since the fight, I dont know if you received them. We left Fredericksburg Sep 12th2 and have marched almost every day and often all night since and as we have had no tents, of course we have had to sleep out in the woods and fields rain or shine  When we left Fredericksburg we marched 30 or 35 miles to Culpepper  from there we went to Cedar Mountains  from there to Kellys Ford on the Rappahannock river to keep Jackson from crossing, from there we went to Warrenton  from there to Warrenton Junction and then to Mannassas Junction where we arived a few hours after Jackson3 had destroyed a large train of cars and buildings at the Depot,  from there we started for the old Bull Run battle feild where we arived on the morning of Friday, August 29th and found the fight going on, our side haveing altogather the best of it. After resting a short time the first Brigade of our Division (which is Reno's Division)4 were ordered into a peice of woods where the enemy were strongly posted and our Brigade which is the 2d was ordered to support a Battery of light Artillery which was posted on a hill,  we threw off our knapsacks and formed line of battle in a ravine in the rear of the Battery  but as the enemy did not see fit to attempt to take the Battery we had nothing to do but lay off as we were protected from the enemys fire by the hills in front of us. In the meantime our first Brigade had been driven out of the woods with heavy loss and had fell back to where we were posted,  just before night we were ordered into the woods but just as we were about going in we saw the enemy make a very desparate charge on a Battery on our left where the 14th of Brooklyn5 and the other regiments were posted and we were ordered to halt and here we stacked arms and stoped for the night  during the night a volley of about 20 shots were fired into us and some of the balls passed mighty close to my head as I lay in the grass  we jumped up and seized our rifles but as the fireing ceased we lay down again and slept till morning when we were ordered bact to the Battery where we stayed untill about 5 Oclock in the afternoon when as the enemy had broken through our left (were McDowell6 troops were posted) and were trying to flank us and cut off our Artillary and baggage train  our Division was ordered to hold them in check untill the trains could get out of the way  We went in on a double quick and with a yell and our Brigade being left in front and our Company being on the left we ran slapp into the rebels before we knew where we were (as it was getting quite dark) was so close to them that  I could hear them talk very plain and some of the rebels sung out to us not to fire as they were our own men and as soon as we came up as close as they wanted us to they poured a volley into us and before we could form in line of battle they gave us one or two more. Our men broke a little at the first volley but we soon rallied them and then began about as sharp a fight as I ever wish to see. As soon as the action commenced I took a rifle from one of our men who had been shot and I took 8 or 10 cartridges from some of the wounded and had a few shots on my own hook which seemed to encourage the men very much  we soon drove the rebels but they rallied and came on again but we were ready for them this time and they gave way again and fell back  we stayed there and waited for them till about 9 Oclock but they had enough and did not make another attempt and as the trains and all passed on towards Centreville our Regt left the field marching company front  we being the last Regt engaged in the terrible fight of Saturday and the last to leave the feild  we fell back as far as Centreville where we lay Sunday and sunday night and on Monday the enemy made another attemt to cut off our baggage train as it was falling back from Centreville to Alexandria  our Brigade with Stephens and Kearnys7 brigades were ordered to move down and engage them and our Regt was ordered into a Cyprus swamp on the extreme right where the trees were so thik we could hardly walk and the rain was falling in torrents completely soaking us.  we only found a few of the enemys skirmishers who we drove out but the Regiments who went in on the left of us  among which was the Mass 21st belonging to our Brigade and who have stood side by side with us in all the fights we ever had was completely cut to peices  our regiment has lost in killed and wounded and missing 92 or men of which our company lost 15 [Unsigned]"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00327.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Sep 19, 1862",0.135046919625,  Near Sharpsburg Md. Sept 19th/62 Dear Mother I am still alive and well  Our Regt was engaged on last Sunday for 3 or 4 hours on the Mountains. but our loss was not very heavy  on Tuesday last we were engaged twice and lost heavy  General Reno was killed on Sunday2  we were in his Division and he thought the world of our Regt  we went into the fight on Sunday afternoon about 5½ O Clock and took the advance and was under a heavy fire until about 9 O Clock when the fireing ceased and we lay down on the field and stayed all night I cannot write more now as the mail goes  I did not get hit at all  G W Whitman 
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00328.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Sep 21, 1862",0.135318917449,"  On the Potomac River Near the Villiage of Antietam Md Sunday Sept 21/62 Dear Mother I had just commenced to write you a letter the day before yesterday when the order was given for our regt to fall in for an advance, and I had only time to let you know that I was alive and well when I have to stop writing and get ready to move. I told you in the letter I wrote from Washington2 something about the battles of Bull Run and Chantilly and as I would much rather write of victories than defeats, (Although you can hardly call Chantilly a defeat as the enemy were foiled in their attempt to cut off our baggage train, though the loss on our side was heavy and included Generals Kearney and Stephens3) I will tell you of what we have done for the last two weeks.  We left Washington by the road leading to Frederick Md, on Sunday Sept 7th and moved by easy marches, untill Thursday Sept 11th when our advance came up with part of the Artillery force of the enemy who were posted in a very commanding position on a range of high hills on the opposite side of a stream called the Monochey4 River. As soon as our advance came within range the enemy opened fire but our Artillery soon got to work throwing shot and shell so fast that the enemy were forced to leave without our Infantry being engaged at all. After the enemy fell back our forces advanced in three or four different Collumns, each takeing a different road. Our Collumn was composed of Reno's 9th Army Corps, and in the wing of the Army Commanded by General Burnside.5 McClelan6 I believe was on the right of Burnside, and someone (I dont know who) was on the left. We came up with the Rebel army again on Sunday Sept 14th  the enemy were posted in a splendid position on a range of Mountains called the south Mountains or Middletown Heights. General Cox7 who commands a Division, of our Army Corps, somehow got around the enemy's left and drove him from his best position, on the crown of the Mountain. Our Division (which is the 2d of the 9th Army Corps and is made up princapaly of what is left of the old Burnside expedition and are commanded by General Sturgis8) was then brought up and took the advance, the enemy falling back slowly untill night, when we found ourselvs, on the opposite side of the Mountains and about a mile from where the fight commenced, with all the best positions on the feild in our posession, and as it was now dark our Division formed in line of battle so as to hold all the ground we had gained during the day and lay down to await the movements of the enemy. Our Regt lay in an open field near the edge of a wood into which the enemy had been driven, and had just got our position and laid down, when the enemy opened fire on us from the woods directly in front of us. Our regt was ordered to lie close and not fire a shot untill the enemy advanced out of the woods and into the field where we lay. The regts on our right and left had a regular cross fire on the enemy and kept pouring the lead into them like rain. I had command of our Company (as the Captain was not well although he was on the field) and I had mighty hard work to keep some of them from getting up and blazing away as they said they did not like to lay there like a lot of old women and be shot without fighting back. I thought it was mighty singular myself but when I saw next morning how things were situated, I saw that as long as we lay down their fire could not harm us much, while if they had come out to the open field we would have got up and given them a volley that would have done terrible execution. The enemy kept up a sharp fire for about half an hour (and it was about the toughest half hour that I ever experianced as I could hear the bullets whiz all around me and some of them seemed to graze me) when the enemys fire began to slacken and it was evident that he did not intend to come out of the woods so that we could get a fair chance at him,  the order was given for us to open fire and you never saw men go to work with a better relish. In about 15 minutes the enemys fire ceased altogather and we knew he had fell back out of range so we ceased fireing and lay down again untill daylight when we found there was no enemy in sight  they haveing Skedadled during the night. After assuring ourselvs that they were gone for good, we stacked arms and I took a walk over our part of the battle field. In some parts of the feild the enemys dead lay in heaps and in a road for nearly a quarter of a mile they lay so thick that I had to pick my way carefully to avoid stepping on them,  I think judging from what I saw that the enemys loss was fully 8 times as great as ours and I am told that the slaughter was equally as great on our right. General Reno was killed soon after we went into action and while he was looking at our position,9  He was a Brigadier general of our Brigade in the old Burnside expedition and was afterwards promoted to the command of the 9th Army Corps and was very much liked by all of us. After resting a few hours in the morning we pushed on again our Division takeing the lead and late in the afternoon of the 16th we found the enemy had concluded to make another stand at a stream about 100 feet wide called Antietam Creek. The bank of their side of the creek was very high and very steep and was covered with heavy woods which gave them a great advantage over us. It was so late in the afternoon that it was decided not to make an attack that night so we filed off into a field and stoped for the night. The only place near where we were, that our Artillery could cross was at a stone Bridge some 20 ft wide, where the enemy had made temporary breastworks of fence rails and logs behind which they could lay almost concealed from us while we would have to advance to the bridge through open fields in plain sight of them. Early on the morning of the 17th the first and second Brigades of our Division was ordered down to take the bridge. The first Brigade was ordered to take a position, at our end of the bridge and try and drive the enemy from behind his shelter while our Brigade which is the 2nd was to be held in reserve. The 1st did not seem inclined to advance to the position assigned them, but rather held back, so Burnside who was looking on ordered Sturgis to send our Brigade there saying, (so the story goes) that he knew we would take it. As soon as we were ordered to forward we started on a double quick and gained the position, although we lost quite a number of men in doing it. We were then ordered to halt and commence fireing, and the way we showered the lead across that creek was noboddys buisness. I had command of our Company again and as soon as the men got steadily settled down to their work I took a rifle from one of the wounded men and went in, loading and fireing as fast as any one. After about half an hour the enemys fire began to slacken a little, and soon the order was given for our Brigade to charge. The 51st Pennsylvania had the right of our Brigade, and should have crossed first, but our boys could not wait, and with the cry of remember Reno, we started for the Bridge  the 51st Penn and our Regt crossing togather. As soon as the rebels saw us start on a charge they broke and run and the fight at the bridge was ended. After we crossed we found the enemy had fell back about ½ or ¾ of a mile to another range of hills where they were protected by stone fences, and the 3d Brigade of our Division and a part of the Division of General Cox were ordered to advance and engage them. They moved up and charged, driving the rebel Infantry in fine style when the enemy brough up a battery of Artillery which poured the grape and cannister into our boys so that they were forced to fall back to our Brigade who was then acting as a reserve. Things began to look rather squally and although our Brigade, was nearly out of ammunition we were ordered to the front again. We formed line of battle and advanced over the hill untill we met the enemy who was moveing down towards us, when both parties took a position, and we went at it again for the 2d time in one day. Our Regt fired every round of ammunition we had, and took from all the dead and wounded on the field and then we lay down as we would not leave the field untill we were ordered. We lay there about half an hour without fireing a shot which seemed to puzzle the rebels very much as they did not come any closer to us, but kept up a pretty brisk fire from where they were. After a while another regiment was sent in to relieve us and we were ordered back to the bridge where we were suplied with ammunition, and something to eat, and as it was almost night and the fireing had ceased on both sides, we were ordered to lay down and rest ourselvs and tired enough we was after our days work as you can imagine. The pickets on both sides kept up the stragling fire all night, and the next morning niether side seemed inclined to commence opperations, so we remained all day  each party occupying the same position they did when the fighting ceased the night before. During the day we took an account of stock, and found we had about 180 men left. One Company was away with the baggage train and we have quite a number sick in Hospital so I think that counting the sick and teamsters, Straglers, and cowards we have about 275 men left of the regt we brought from New York less than a year ago. The loss of our regt in the Sunday and Wednesday's fight10 was from 120 to 125 killed wounded and missing. Our Adjutant who lived in Brooklyn and was named Fowler,11 was killed at the bridge. Both Lieutenants in Co F which is on the right of our Co and both in Co K who was next to us on the left, was hit  one was killed  2 was badly wounded an one slightly12 At daylight on the morning of Sept 19th we found the enemy had left and we moved foreward about 3 miles to the Potomac River where we are now and as near as I can find out the enemy are all out of Md. Wel Mother I guess you will get tired before you get through reading this letter. You must not think strange when you do not hear from me often, for sometimes I do not get a chance to write for weeks. I received last week a letter from you dated the 7th and one from Jeff of the 8th. I was very glad to hear you are all getting along well. I hope Mother you will take good care of yourself and not worry and frett, for that troubles me more than anything else. I supose you know more about the situation of affairs than I do as I do not see the papers often, but it seems to me the rebels have been terribly cut up within the last few days and as near as I can find out they are all driven out of Md. I dont know how soon I will have a chance to send this, but I am pretty sure that we will move from here in the course of a day or two, and will probably go to Harpers Ferry so I shall have a chance to send it from there, if not before. I heard General Burnside say the other day that our regt would now have a chance to go in camp and rest awhile so I think likely we shall stay at Harpers Ferry awhile. You speak in your letter of Walts seeing the Captain of our Co at Major LeGendre's13 office,  it was the 1st Lieutenant who has been home since the battle of Newbern where he was wounded. I supose you have heard of the death of Joe Grummond.14 I have talked with a number of rebel prisoners lately and the more inteligent of them say that the late raid into Md. was a desperate thing, but they had to do something as they were in such a bad fix in Virginia that the war will soon have to be brought to a close. Well Mother I am about tired of writing so I will stop. I will write again soon if I have a chance  I would like to see you all very much and mabe I will get a chance to come home before a great while. Good bye Mother  Much love to Mattie, the Baby and all the rest. G.W. Whitman Wednesday Sept 24th  I have not had a chance to send this letter since it was written but I hear, a mail will leave here to day so I open this to let you know that we are still here and that everything is quiet  G.W.W.15 "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.01006.html," Letter from Theodore Rich to Walt Whitman ,","Sep 25, 1862",0.135862913097,"  Brooklyn, Sept 25th / 62 Friend Mr Whitman   You must excuse me for not calling as I promised you I would this morning. I did not think at the time of what I had to do this morning. necessity prevented me from calling upon you. may I ask you to call and see me an[other] I think I can [illegible] than I can tell Richmond &c. I [illegible] curiosities that I can which I have made [illegible] licted while in the [illegible] Please except the [illegible]  Olige Yours Theodore  220 Washing[illegible] Walt Whitman Esq.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00329.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Sep 30, 1862",0.136542907657,"  Near Antietam Md. Sept 30th 1862 Dear Mother We are still laying quietly at the place from which I dated my last letter. I thought when I wrote you last which was 5 or 6 days since that we should cross over into Virginia before now, but as we are comfortably situated, I think very likely we will remain here for some time. Everything now is quiet and it is quite a releif to be out of the sound of canon after hearing it almost daily, and sometimes nightly, for two or three weeks. I think the late rebel movement into Maryland has been a very unfortunate one for them, as they did not meet with anything like the encouragement from the Marylanders that they expected, and I believe that after the battle of Bull Run1 they firmly expected to invade Pennsylvania if not capture Washington and Baltimore, and now to be badly beaten twice, and driven back with such terrible loss, must be very discouraging and had it not been for bad management, cowardice, or treachery at Harpers Fery, I believe we could have bagged the most of their army. We are now about 8 miles from Harpers Fery and are in the midst of Mountains, from which the view is very fine indeed. We have enough to eat and plenty of good cool spring water. We have been provided with shelter tents, which are made of two peices of light canvas about 6 ft square  each which button togather in the centre and make one tent to accomodate two men, they are very good on account of the heavy dews we have here, and for a shade, but as the two ends are open they are not much use in a storm. When we move the occupants of a tent each take half  roll it and tie it on their backs so we always have our houses with us and can make ourselves at home wherever we stop. Mother the last letter I received from home is dated Sept 8th and I hope if you have not writen you will write as soon as you get this. The captain of our company2 has gone home on a twenty days furlough. I believe he intends to stop a few days in New York at the Astor House. Tryon3 our 1st Lieut that was in New York recruiting has returned,  he has a position as Aide on General Ferrero's Staff, so that I am in command of the company. A Corporal from our company, started for New York, on recruiting service this morning. I told him if he had a chance to call on you and send me word how you all are. His name is John Cambit and he was sent to report to Major LeGendre4 at his office on Broadway, where he can be found. I expect there will shortly be some promotions made in the regt and I think I stand a good chance to be made a 1st Lieut. I think, after Cap gets back if everything remains quiet I shall try for a furlough to come home for a few days and see you all. I have stuck pretty close to buisness since I have been sogering, and the regt never went on a march or into a fight without my being on hand. (I see by the papers that Uncle Abe has issued a proclamation declaring the slaves free in all the States that are in rebellion on the first of next Jan. I dont know what effect it is going to have on the war, but one thing is certain, he has got to lick the south before he can free the niggers,)5 and unless he drives ahead and convinces the south, before the first of January, that we are bound to lick them, and it would be better for them to behave themselvs and keep their slaves, than to get licked and lose them, I dont think the proclamation will do much good. Mother I have three months pay due me to day so dont deprive yourself of anything you need. Direct my letters Sturgis Division, Ferreros Brigade 9th Army Corps  I often think that I can imagine just what you are all doing at home and ile bet now, that Mother is makeing pies. I think Mat is putting up shirt bosoms like the deuce so as to get through before dinner  I guess Sis is down stairs helping Mother mix the dough, Walt is up stairs writing, Jeff is down town at the Office, Jess is pealing Potatoes for dinner,  and Tobias has gone down cellar for a scuttle of coal,  Bunkum I guess is around somewhere looking for a good chance to go sogering.6 Well Mother take good care of yourself and dont get exciteded. Much love to allG. W. Whitman I think I shall write to Boss Rac7 in a day or two "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00330.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Oct 20, 1862",0.139262885897,"  Pleasant Valley, Md   Oct 20th/62 Dear Mother Everything is quiet on the Potomac, and we are still encamped here in Md. I am well and comfortable with the exception of an attack of homesickness which I cant seem to shake off. Mother why the deuce dont some of you write to a fellow,  Your Past letter is dated the 5th and I have written since then,  the last letter I wrote, filled 8 or 9 pages, did you get it. I want very much to know when you have heard from Hann. and if she has recovered from her sickness and is comeing home soon, and Mary, do you ever hear from her. And Mother I want to hear from all of you at home, have you got a good stove, and plenty of coal, and how about buckwheat cakes and sich. Matt and Sis, I hope are right Smart, and can you fly around, Mamy as lively as when I left home. Where in thunder does all the troops go, that the papers say are leaving New York, and the other Citys every day. Why dont they send em, out to the front, and let us old veterans come home, and see our Mammies. We ought to have force enough now, to go right ahead and balsmather the seceshers. I dont like the idea of fighting the same ground over three or four times but I supose its all right. The nights here are cool, but the days are splendid,  us officers have been furnished with wall tents and as we have plenty of blankets we get along very well, but the men are not as well provided for. I am still in command of our company as Capt Francis1 has not returned yet, although his time was up two days ago. We were ordered, one day last week, to be ready to move at five minutes notice, and as we had heard artillery fireing all the morning, we thought, we was in for annother fight, but it turned out to be some of our folks out on a reconnoissance somewhere near Charlestown Va, but as they did not find the Rebels in very strong force, we were not sent over, and I hardly think, from present appearences that we will leave here for some days yet. I wonder whats the reason they dont pay us off. Uncle Sam aint busted up is he,  it wouldent be much wonnder if he did though for he is swindled right smart, I recon. Well Mamy its getting cold so I will stop and go to bed. Maby you think I aint got no bed, but I have, and a bedstead too, made with four croched sticks drove in the ground, thus and my bed is a genuine corn husk Mattress which I think is a good deal healthier than feathers.2 Good Night Mother, and much love to all. write as soon as you get this, Lieut G. W. Whitman Co. D51st Regt N.Y. Vols. FerrerosBrigade, Sturgis Division,9th Army Corps, Reasan Valley Md"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00331.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Nov 10, 1862",0.142118863049,"  Jefferson Va   Monday Evening  Nov. 10th/62 Dear Mother I have not had a chance to send you a letter for some days, but I suppose you have seen by the papers that we have crossed into Va again. We are now about 50 miles from Harpers Ferry and about 15 miles from Cullpepper court House, where the rebels are said to be in considerable force. We have found nothing but small squads so far doing picket duty, who fall back as fast as we advance. I am well and hearty but we get pretty hard fare, most of the time, but we are getting pretty well used to that. We crossed into Va on the 27th of Oct and have been traveling about from one place to another ever since, The Villiages we have passed through are the most God forsaken places I ever saw,1  the people seem to have next to nothing to eat as the men have all gone in the Secesh army, and how they are going to get through the winter I dont know. We have not seen a paper since we came into Va and we cant find out what the rest of the army is doing, or how the New York election went, so you see we are a long way behind the age  Captain Francis2 has not come back yet. and I am getting almost tired of haveing the whole trouble and responsibility of the Company and someone else getting the pay for it.  We have not been paid yet and I have something over 400$ comeing to me besides the $100 bounty which I believe I am entitled to as I was mustered into the Service as a private. I recd your letter of Oct 26th. Mother, I must stop writing as my candle is going out, and I hope in a few days we will get where we can send letters regular Good Night Motherand much love to allG W Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00528.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman , 19","Dec 0, 1862",0.144838841289," Dear Mother. You can't imagine how sorry I was to hear how worried you have been about me, and all the while I was as well as ever, so you see how foolish it is to frett,  the most trouble that I have, is thinking that you are worrying about me,  so you see Mother if you would do as I say, and not frett we would both have less trouble. Mother why dont you write to a fellow  I have not had a letter from you in a long time. I hope you have everything comfortable there at home. I should be mad as blazes if I knew you did not use the money I sent on, for anything you need, whenever you want clothing or anything else  dont be afraid to use the money for there is plenty more where that came from, so go in lemons, and remember your galliant Son is a Capting,2 and expects you to keep up the dignity of the family, and darn the expense. Mother I wish you would send me $10 by mail as soon as conveinent,  I have over two months pay due me, but we shall probaly not get paid in some time yet. dont fail to write to me as soon as you get this, and dont forget the good advice in the good book about fretting. Good Night Dear Mother Geo. W. Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00332.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Dec 8, 1862",0.145926832585,"  Camp of 51st Regt N Y Vols nearFalmouth Va December 8th 1862 Dear Mother. All is quiet along the Rappahannock and we are still lying here in Camp. The weather has been Cold here, for the last day or two, and this morning the ground is covered with snow, but the sun is out now, warm and pleasant and promises fine weather. We were paid, a few days since, and one of our Officers leaves this afternoon for Washington to take money to the Express Office. I shall send you $300. The Expressage will not be paid so you will pay it when you receive the money. I suppose you will get it soon after you get this. I have been out with my Co on Picket but we are now back to Camp,  I had charge of the line, for more than a mile, so that I had to keep my Eyes open,  we were posted along the bank of the river which is very narrow, and so Shallow that it is very easy to cross, at some places,  The Rebs are posted on the opposite bank in plain sight and we could talk to each other, but there was no shooting as I had strickt orders not to alow a rifle fired, unless the Rebs commenced the performance,  Capt Francis,1 came back last night but he is not very well and will not take command of the Co for a few days yet. I received Walts letter, (enclosing a note from You and Mattie) when I was on Picket, and was so pleased to hear from you all, that I read them over three or four times, and wished we could have one good big square fight that would settle the Rebs, and the war at the same time, so that I could come home and see you all, and drink that wine Matt has saved for me. I hardly think there will be a fight here at Fredericksburg, as we have orders to fix up our tents as though we were expected to stay here some time. The rebels seem to be buisy, building breastworks, and prepareing for us, but I should think it would not be much trouble for us to drive them out of Fredericksburg if we went about it. I see by the papers the great Banks Expedition2 has sailed, but everyone is in the dark as to its destination,  I only hope they are going to act, with us in the capture of Richmond, which it seems to me should be taken, without any more blowing and talking. Mother you ask if my throat troubles me any now. Not a bit,  I never felt better in my life,  one thing I have learned in this war, and that is, that I can stand almost any amount of exposeure, as I have found by experience, Mother dont fail to let me hear from you as soon as you get the money, and when you write to Han tell her to be Sure and write to me. Good ByeG. W. Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00333.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Dec 16, 1862",0.147014823881,"  Camp near Falmouth Va   Dec 16th/62 Dear Mother. We have had another battle and I have come out safe and sound, although I had the side of my jaw slightly scraped with a peice of shell which burst at my feet. On Thursday morning last before daylight one of our Regts, commenced to throw a Pontoon Bridge across the River when the Rebel sharpshooters opened on them from the houses along the bank of the River, and our Artillery began to Shell the Town. The Rebel Batteries opened upon ours and a terrible Canonnading was kept up all day. Just before night our fellows succeeding in getting a bridge across and a Regt of Infantry attempted to cross but the Rebs drove them back. Our Regt had been under arms all day, and was then ordered down, but before we got there some of our troops managed to get across and hold the landing untill they were reinforced when they drove the Rebs to the outskirts of the Town and we were ordered back to Camp. Early on Friday morning we went over, but there was no general engagement although skirmishing was going on all day, but we were not engaged at all. About 8 Oclock on Saturday morning our side made an advance driving the Rebel Skirmishers back about a mile and a half from the river, and into their earthworks and about noon the fight became general. The enemy were posted in an almost impregnable position on a raange of hills which they have covered with breastworks for Artillery and Rifle pitts for Infantry while between them and the Town from which we had to advance is an open plain swept on all parts by their guns and at the foot of the hills is a narrow creek, with a steep muddy bank on each side, over which it would be impossible to charge and as they were almost entirely protected by their breastworks you can imagine what an advantage they had over us. About 9 O clock in the morning our Regt was ordered to support a Battery. but it was in such an exposed position that they could not work the guns, and after looseing several men they were forced to haul off and we laid still untill about 3 Oclock when we were ordered up to the front. Our whole Brigade formed in line and advanced beautifully over the plain and up to the bank of the creek, under a most terrible fire of Rifle balls, Cannister, and Shell,  after getting to the edge of the creek we lay down and blazed away untill night  Other Brigades and Divissions followed us in and lay down behind us but we could get no further, and after dark the fireing ceased and we all fell back to the Town except 3 Brigades who was left to hold the ground untill morning when we supposed the fight would be renewed but Sunday passed and no fighting. On Sunday night our Regt went out on Picket within 200 ft of the enemys breastworks but we were protected by a slight raise of the ground but we had to lay down flat all the time for as soon as we got up the Rebs cracked away at us, last night all the troops fell back on this side of the river takeing up the bridge and here we are now. the mail is just Closeing  So good Bye all  did you get the money  write immediately [Unsigned} "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00394.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 19, 1862",0.147422820617,"  Brooklyn, N. Y. Friday Dec 19 /62 Dear Brother Walt, We are all much worried at not hearing anything from you. I have been over to the headquarters of the 51st three or four times but could get no information about brother George. The Times of day before yesterday gave his name among the wounded thus  ""Lieut Whitman Co. E 51st N. Y. V. cheek"" and we are trying to comfort ourselves with hope that it may not be a serious hurt. We certainly expected to hear from you before this and that you had found him. I know you will spare neither pains nor anything else to find him. I do hope that dear brother George is not seriously hurt. Dont fail to let us hear from you at once, even if you have not been able to learn anything about him  it would be a consolation to know certainly that you had arrived safely at Washington  Mother stands it pretty well, but begins to feel pretty bad about not hearing from you Mat and Dolly2 are quite well. We have been picturing to ourselves that you would bring George home with you and how nicely we would establish him in our front room with Mat as chief nurse. Dear brother do write immediately. Tell George how much we all love him and how badly we all feel that he should be hurt. Your affectionate brother Jeff"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00758.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Dec 29, 1862",0.148782809738,"  Washington,  Monday forenoon, | December 29, 1862.  Dear, dear Mother, Friday the 19th inst. I succeeded in reaching the camp of the 51st New York, and found George alive and well   In order to make sure that you would get the good news, I sent back by messenger to Washington (I dare say you did not get it for some time) a telegraphic dispatch, as well as a letter   and the same to Hannah at Burlington. I have staid in camp with George ever since, till yesterday, when I came back to Washington1   about the 24th George got Jeff's letter of the 20th. Mother, how much you must have suffered, all that week, till George's letter came   and all the rest must too. As to me, I know I put in about three days of the greatest suffering I ever experienced in my life. I wrote to Jeff2 how I had my pocket picked in a jam and hurry, changing cars, at Philadelphia, so that I landed here without a dime. The next two days I spent hunting through the hospitals, walking all day and night, unable to ride, trying to get information, trying to get access to big people, &c   I could not get the least clue to anything   Odell3 would not see me at all   But Thursday afternoon, I lit on a way to get down on the government boat that runs to Aquia creek, and so by railroad to the neighborhood of Falmouth, opposite Fredericksburgh   So by degrees I worked my way to Ferrero's4 brigade, which I found Friday afternoon without much trouble after I got in camp. When I found dear brother George, and found that he was alive and well, O you may imagine how trifling all my little cares and difficulties seemed   they vanished into nothing. And now that I have lived for eight or nine days amid such scenes as the camps furnish, and had a practical part in it all, and realize the way that hundreds of thousands of good men are now living, and have had to live for a year or more, not only without any of the comforts, but with death and sickness and hard marching and hard fighting, (and no success at that,) for their continual experience   really nothing we call trouble seems worth talking about. One of the first things that met my eyes in camp, was a heap of feet, arms, legs, &c. under a tree in front a hospital, the Lacy house. George is very well in health, has a good appetite   I think he is at times more wearied out and homesick than he shows, but stands it upon the whole very well. Every one of the soldiers, to a man, wants to get home. I suppose Jeff got quite a long letter I wrote from camp, about a week ago. I told you that George had been promoted to Captain5   his commission arrived while I was there. When you write, address Capt. George W. Whitman Co. K. 51st New York Vol. Ferrero's brigade near Falmouth Va. Jeff must write oftener, and put in a few lines from mother, even if it is only two lines   then in the next letter a few lines from Mat, and so on. You have no idea how letters from home cheer one up in camp, and dissipate home sickness. While I was there George still lived in Capt. Francis's6 tent   there were five of us altogether, to eat, sleep, write, &c. in a space twelve feet square, but we got along very well   the weather all along was very fine   and would have got along to perfection, but Capt. Francis is not a man I could like much   I had very little to say to him. George is about building a place, half-hut and half-tent, for himself   (he is probably about it this very day)   and then he will be better off, I think. Every Captain has a tent, in which he lives, transacts company business, &c. has a cook, (or man of all work,) and in the same tent mess and sleep his Lieutenants, and perhaps the 1st sergeant. They have a kind of fire-place, and the cook's fire is outside, on the open ground. George had very good times while Francis was away   the cook, a young disabled soldier, Tom,7 is an excellent fellow, and a first-rate cook, and the 2d Lieutenant, Pooley,8 is a tip-top young Pennsylvanian. Tom thinks all the world of George   when he heard he was wounded, on the day of the battle, he left every thing, got across the river, and went hunting for George through the field, through thick and thin. I wrote to Jeff that George was wounded by a shell, a gash in the cheek   you could stick a splint through into the mouth, but it has healed up without difficulty already. Every thing is uncertain about the army, whether it moves or stays where it is. There are no furloughs granted at present. I will stay here for the present, at any rate long enough to see if I can get any employment at any thing, and shall write what luck I have. Of course I am unsettled at present. Dear mother, my love, Walt. If Jeff or any one writes, address me, | care of Major Hapgood,9 paymaster, U. S. Army, | corner 15th and F streets, 5th floor, | Washington D. C. I send my love to dear sister Mat, and little sis   and to Andrew and all my brothers. O Mat, how lucky it was you did not come   together, we could never have got down to see George.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/har.00050.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Ralph Waldo Emerson ,","Dec 29, 1862",0.148782809738,"  Washington, D.C.  Monday afternoon, Dec. 29, '62.  Dear friend, Breaking up a few weeks since, and for good, my New York stagnation   wandering since through camp and battle scenes   I fetch up here in harsh and superb plight   wretchedly poor, excellent well, (my only torment, family matters,)   realizing at last that it is necessary for me to fall for the time in the wise old way, to push my fortune, to be brazen, and get employment, and have an income   determined to do it, (at any rate until I get out of horrible sloughs) I write you, asking you as follows: I design to apply personally direct at headquarters, for some place. I would apply on literary grounds, not political. I wish you would write for me something like the enclosed form of letter, that I can present, opening my interview with the great man. I wish you to write two copies   put the one in an envelope directed to Mr. Seward, Secretary of State   and the other in an envelope directed to Mr. Chase, Secretary of the Treasury   and enclose both envelopes in the one I send herewith so that I can use either one or the other. I wish you also to send me a note of introduction to Charles Sumner.2 It is pretty certain that, armed in that way, I shall conquer my object. Answer me by next mail, for I am waiting here like ship waiting for the welcome breath of the wind. Indeed yours, &c Walt Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00395.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Jan 1, 1863",0.149190806474,"  Brooklyn, N. Y. Jan. 1st 1863 Dear brother Walt, ""Happy New Year"" Walt, to you, is the wish and greeting of your Mother and brothers and sister in Brooklyn, and Hattie too says to send Happy new Year for her too to Uncle Walt. I received the letter that you wrote me in due time and yesterday Mother received one from you1  I wrote to you two letters2 and directed [them] to the ""Delevan House, cor. of Pennsylvania and West Ninth Streets.[""]3 Dear Walt, what hours of trouble you must of past till you found George  Mother and Mat each had a ""good cry"" yesterday in reading of how you had to get along, and I myself could hardly keep the water from my face  If you had only been coming home they say, and lost your money, twould have been no matter  but to loose it when you did not know how much you might need it on Georges account, must have made you felt miserable indeed.4 And then the damnable conduct of those ""big bugs"" (I believe the biggest bugs are [""]tumble turds"") that you speak about must have made you feel doubly provoked.5 But the most trying scene of all must have been your sight in front of the Hospital tent, not knowing how severely George was wounded. I should think that it would almost have been too much for you.6 But thank God, it has all come out right, and George was not much hurt. I have written George, somewhat urging him to quit the army.7 I think that it is the duty of all of us to urge this upon him, I honestly think that he has done enough and run risk enough for any one man. And too there is no judgement used in putting the old regiments in battle, they just keep throwing them in as long as there is a man left. If I belonged to one I am sure that it would look to me just as if they were bound to kill every man as long as the number of the Reg. was represented Walt do see and talk this matter over with him  Speak with him of Mother, who is getting old very old, and if anything should happen [to] him I am quite sure she could not survive it  Even now I can see the effect of the weeks worry that she has already had.  Certainly no one could find any fault with him, or talk of him other than the bravest of the brave if he should resign to-morrow. And another thing I certanly do not see how this immense risk and sacrifice of life is doing any good at all, it looks very much to me as if we were slowly but surely drifting towards mediation or something worse. Walt, I beg of you, do not neglect to see George and put this thing in its strongest light. Just think for a moment of the number of suckers that are gaining all the real benefits of the war (if that is not wicked to say) and think of George and thousands of others running all the risk while they are drawing all the pay. Think of Dick Butt8 and the thousand [other?] sneaks that we know. If he wont resign see if there is no possible way in which he can be removed for a while at least from his present place to one of less danger. Dear Walt I honestly think that he is carrying the life of our Mother, dear dear Mother with his own, and therefore I say tis our duty9 to urge him to resign and his duty10 to do it. Again and again let me say that if possible accomplish it11 Friday 2nd. I intended to mail this to you yesterday but not having a stamp and not being able to get one could'nt do it. I have just taken dinner with Mat, Mother and Sis. on ""Turkey."" Knowing the locality you can imagine the whole performance to a niceity. I only wish that you and George had been with us, then the thing would have been complete. Mother is pretty well, but shows the effects of her anxiety about George, I think, quite plainly. On New Years Eve old Mr Turner12 next door, died, quite suddenly I believe. The old man I saw out but a few days since  Otherwise I beleve things are about as usual.  How about you Walt, what are you trying to get to do. How about Money. If you get hard pushed let me know and I will try and raise you some. I am going along as usual, earning about half time with a ""constant"" prospect of doing better. Of course if you can poultice any thing so as to draw a little money out of it why do so, but dont be discouraged if you cant. I would rather see you and George come home to-gether than any amt of Green-backs. I understand that our old friend Bill Hart13 is on here, wounded in the battle of Fredricksburg   , quite badly, but will recover. Mother sends her dearest love also Mat, ditto the rest of us. Write me at once and let me know how you are getting along. I was much, very much interested by your letters and want it repeated. Good bye dear Brother Yours very truly J. Mother had a letter from Heyde to-day  Han is quite well. Mary writes that Fanny is married14 "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00759.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Martha Whitman ,","Jan 1, 1863",0.149190806474,"  Washington, | Friday morning, Jan. 2, 1863.  Dear sister, You have heard of my fortunes and misfortunes of course, (through my letters to mother and Jeff,) since I left home, that Tuesday afternoon. But I thought I would write a few lines to you, as it is a comfort to write home, even if I have nothing particular to say. Well, dear sister, I hope you are well and hearty, and that little sis keeps as well as she always had, when I left home, so far. Dear little plague, how I would like to have her with me, for one day. I can fancy I see her, and hear her talk. Jeff must have got a note from me about a letter I have written to the Eagle 1   you may be sure you will get letters enough from me, for I have little else to do at present. Since I laid my eyes on dear brother George, and saw him alive and well   and since I have spent a week in camp, down there opposite Fredericks-burgh, and seen what well men and sick men, and mangled men endure   it seems to me I can be satisfied and happy henceforward if I can get one meal a day, and know that mother and all are in good health, and especially if I can only be with you again, and have some little steady paying occupation in N. Y. or Brooklyn. I am writing this in the office of Major Hapgood, way up in the top of a big high house, corner of 15th and F. street   there is a splendid view, away down south, of the Potomac river, and across to the Georgetown side, and the grounds and houses of Washington spread out beneath my high point of view. The weather is perfect   I have had that in my favor ever since leaving home   yesterday and to-day it is bright, and plenty warm enough. The poor soldiers are continually coming in from the hospitals, &c. to get their pay   some of them waiting for it, to go home. They climb up here, quite exhausted, and then find it is no good, for there is no money to pay them   there are two or three paymasters desks in this room, and the scenes of disappointment are quite affecting. Here they wait in Washington, perhaps week after [week], wretched and heart sick   this is the greatest place of delays and puttings off, and no finding the clue to any thing   this building is the paymaster general's quarters, and the crowds on the walk and corner, of poor sick, pale, tattered soldiers, are awful   many of them day after day, disappointed and tired out. Well, Mat, I will suspend my letter for the present, and go out through the city   I have a couple of poor fellows in the Hospital to visit also. Walt.  Saturday evening, Jan 3d.  I write this in the place where I have my lodging room, 394 L street, 4th door above 14th street. A friend of mine, William D. O'Connor,2 has two apartments, on the 3d floor, very ordinarily furnished, for which he pays the extra ordinary price of $25 a month. I have a werry little bedroom on the 2d floor   Mr. & Mrs. O'Connor and their little girl have all gone out ""down town"" for an hour or two, to make some Saturday evening purchases, and I am left in possession of the premises   so I sit by the fire, and scribble more of my letter. I have not heard any thing from dear brother George since I left the camp last Sunday morning, 28th Dec. I wrote to him on Tuesday last   I wish to get to him the two blue woolen shirts Jeff sent, as they would come very acceptable to him   and will try to do it yet. I think of sending them by mail, if the postage is not more than $1. Yesterday I went out to the Campbell Hospital to see a couple of Brooklyn boys, of the 51st. They knew I was in Washington, and sent me a note, to come and see them. O my dear sister, how your heart would ache to go through the rows of wounded young men, as I did   and stopt to speak a comforting word to them. There were about 100 in one long room, just a long shed neatly whitewashed inside. One young man was very much prostrated, and groaning with pain. I stopt and tried to comfort him. He was very sick. I found he had not had any medical attention since he was brought there   among so many he had been overlooked. So I sent for the doctor, and he made an examination of him   the doctor behaved very well   seemed to be anxious to do right   said that the young man would recover   he had been brought pretty low with diarroeha, and now had bronchitis, but not so serious as to be dangerous. I talked to him some time   he seemed to have entirely give up, and lost heart   he had not a cent of money   not a friend or acquaintance   I wrote a letter from him to his sister   his name is John A. Holmes,3 Campbello, Plymouth county, Mass. I gave him a little change I had   he said he would like to buy a drink of milk, when the woman came through with milk. Trifling as this was, he was overcome and began to cry. Then there were many, many others. I mention the one, as a specimen. My Brooklyn boys were John Lowery, shot at Fredericksburgh, and lost his left forearm, and Amos H. Vliet4   Jeff knows the latter   he has his feet frozen, and is doing well. The 100 are in a ward, (6.)   and there are, I should think, eight or ten or twelve such wards in the Campbell Hospital   indeed a real village. Then there are some 38 more Hospitals here in Washington, some of them much larger.  Sunday forenoon, Jan 4, '63.  Mat, I hope and trust dear mother and all are well, and every thing goes on good home. The envelope I send, Jeff or any of you can keep for direction, or use it when wanted to write to me. As near as I can tell, the army at Falmouth remains the same. Dear sister, good bye. Walt.    I send my love to Andrew and Jesse and Eddy and all   What distressing news this is of the loss of the Monitor5      "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/pml.00012.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Abby H. Price , 11–15",", 1, 1863",0.149190806474,"  Washington  October 11 1863  Dear friend, Your letters were both received, & were indeed welcome. Don't mind my not answering them promptly, for you know what a wretch I am about such things. But you must write just as often as you conveniently can. Tell me all about your folks, especially the girls, & about Mr Arnold2   of course you won't forget Arthur,3 & always when you write to him send him my love. Tell me about Mrs Urner4 & the dear little rogues. Tell Mrs Black5 she ought to be here hospital matron   only it is a harder pull than folks anticipate. You wrote about Emma, her thinking she might & ought to come as nurse for the soldiers   dear girl, I know it would be a blessed thing for the men to have her loving spirit & hand, & whoever of the poor fellows had them would indeed feel it so. But, my darling, it is a dreadful thing   you dont know these wounds, sicknesses &c   the sad condition in which many of the men are brought here, & remain for days, sometimes the wounds full of crawling corruption &c   Down in the field hospitals in front they have no proper care & attention, & after a battle go for many days unattended to    Abby, I think often about you, & the pleasant days, the visits I used to pay you & how good it was always to be made so welcome. O I wish I could come in this afternoon, & have a good tea with you, & have three or four hours of mutual comfort & talk, & be all of us together again. Is Helen home, & well? And what is she doing now? And you, my dear friend, how sorry I am to hear that your health is not rugged   but, dear Abby, you must not dwell on anticipations of the worst. (But I know that is not your nature, or did not use to be.) O I hope this will find you feeling quite well, & in good spirits   I feel so well myself   I will have to come & see you I think   I am so fat, out considerable in the open air, & all red & tanned worse than ever. You see therefore that my life amid these sad & unhealthy hospitals has not yet told upon me, for I am this fall running over with health, so I feel [as] if I ought to go on that account [working] among all the sick & deficient [who are deprived of] it   & O how gladly I would [bestow upon you a] liberal share, dear Abby, [if such a]6 thing were possible. I am continually moving around among the hospitals. One I go to oftenest the last three months is Armory Square, as it is large, generally full of the worst wounds & sicknesses, & is one of the least visited   to this, or some one, I never miss a day or evening. I am enabled to give the men something   add perhaps some trifle to their supper all round. Then there are always special cases, needing something special. Above all the poor boys welcome magnetic friendship, personality (some are so fervent, so hungering for this)   poor fellows, how young they are, lying there with their pale faces, & that mute look in the eyes. O how one gets to love them, often, particular cases, so suffering, so good, so manly & affectionate   Abby, you would all smile to see me among them   many of them like children, ceremony is mostly discarded   they suffer & get exhausted & so weary   lots of them have grown to expect as I leave at night that we should kiss each other, sometimes quite a number, I have to go round   poor boys, there is little petting in a soldier's life in the field, but, Abby, I know what is in their hearts, always waiting, though they may be unconscious of it themselves    I have a place where I buy very nice home-made biscuits, sweet crackers &c   Among others, one of my ways is to get a good lot of these & for supper go through a couple of wards & give a portion to each man   next evening two wards more, & so on   then each marked case needs something to itself   I spend my evenings altogether at the hospitals   my day, often. I give little gifts of money in small sums, which I am enabled to do. All sorts of things indeed, food, clothing, letter-stamps (I write lots of letters), now & then a good pair of crutches &c &c. Then I read to the boys   the whole ward that can walk gathers around me & listens    All this I tell you, my dear, because I know it will interest you. I like Washington very well (did you see my last letter in N Y Times of Oct 4, Sunday?)7 I have three or four hours work every day copying & in writing letters for the press, &c., make enough to pay my way   live in an unexpensive manner any how   I like the mission I am on here, & as it is deeply holding me I shall continue    October 5 Well, Abby, I guess I will send you letter enough   I ought to have finished & sent off the letter last Sunday, when it was written   I have been pretty busy   we are having new arrivals of wounded & sick now all the time   some very bad cases   Abby, should you come across any one who feels to help, contribute to the men through me, write me. (I may then send word some purchases I should find acceptable for the men)   but this only if it happens to come in that you know or meet any one, perfectly convenient    Abby, I have found some good friends here, a few, but true as steel   W D O'Connor & wife, above all. He is a clerk in Treasury   she is a Yankee girl   then C W Eldridge8 in paymaster's department. He is a Boston boy too   their friendship has been unswerving. In the hospitals among these American young men, I could not describe to you what mutual attachments & how passing deep & tender these boys   some have died, but the love for them lives as long as I draw breath   those soldiers know how to love too when once they have the right person & the right love offered them. It is wonderful. You see I am running off into the clouds   but this is my element    Abby, I am writing this note this afternoon in Major Hapgood's office   he is away sick   I am here a good deal of the time alone   it is a dark rainy afternoon   we don't know what is going on down in front, whether Meade is getting the worst of it, or not9   (but the result of the big elections cheers us)10   I believe fully in Lincoln   few know the rocks & quicksands he has to steer through. I enclose you a note Mrs O'Connor handed me to send to you, written I suppose upon impulse   she is a noble Massachusetts woman, is not very rugged in health   I am there very much   her husband & I are great friends too   Well I will close   the rain is pouring, the sky leaden   it is between 2 & 3   I am going to get some dinner & then to hospital   good by, dear friends, & I send my love to all    Walt Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00118.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Thomas Jefferson Whitman ,","Jan 8, 1863",0.150142798858,"  Camp near Falmouth Va.  Jan. 8th 63 Dear Brother I am very very sorry to have coused you all so much uneasyness. I was in hopes that you would not hear of our Regts being in the fight untill you got my letter. How my name came to be in the papers I cant see, as I was very careful not to report myself in the list of wounded in my company, but I think Colonel Potter1 who saw the scratch on my face, must have aded my name to the list little thinking I suppose how much uneasyness it would cause at home. But there is one consolation Jeff,  I know that I would have been well cared for if I had been badly hurt, for Walt told me how anxious Matt was to come on and take care of me, and that she was to come to Washington as soon as he sent word that I was there, and it seems to me I would have to be pretty badly hurt if I did not soon get well, if I could get home and be doctored by Mother and Mattie. Poor old Mother  she is hardly ever out of my mind, when we are going into a fight, and I have often thought when I have been in a pretty hot place, how glad I was that none of you at home, knew anything about it, and it makes me feel quite bad to think how worried you all were, on account of seeing my name in the list of wounded, while I was just as well as ever I was in my life, as the scratch I got scared me a great deal worse than it hurt,  It was a mighty warm place we were into when I was hit, as the Rebs had a battery planted right in front of us and not more than 1000 yards distance, and they poured grape and cannister into us like the very devil. You see we had to advance over a level plane and their batteries being on high ground and they being behind breastworks we had no chance at them, while they could take as deliberate aim as a fellow would at a chicken,  the range was so short, that they threw percussion shels into our ranks, that would drop at our feet and explode killing and wounding Three or four every pop. It was a peice of one of that kind of varmints that struck me in the jaw,  the shell burst right at my feet so I think that I got off pretty luckey.  I had several pretty narrow chances that day, but you know the almynack says, a miss is as good &C. I suppose Walt has told you all the particulars of his visit here,2 I have had one letter from him since he went to Washington,3  he says he shall probaly stay there some time. We are haveing very comfortable times here in camp, as the weather is fine and we have plenty to eat. The rebels still hold the other side of the river and apear to be in considerable force, but they keep very quiet, and mind their own business, and we do the same,  I dont see much signs of a move on our part although the camp is full of rumors, of our going to some of the Fortifications around Washington but I have heard so much of that kind of talk that I dont put any faith in it, although I think they will have to do something with our Regt soon as we can only turn out about 160 men and it seems to me to be foolishness, to pay the officers and keep such Regt's in the feild, when there are plenty of full Regt's laying idle around Washington and in Maryland. Nearly all the old Regts about here have been partly filled up, except the three old Regts of our Brigade, which rather looks to me as if they intended to consolidate us with some other New York Regt or send us somewhere to do garrison duty. I rather think the greater part of the fighting for our Regt is over. Jeff I got your letter of Jan 2d yesterday morning and am very sory to hear that Han has not recovered from her sickness,  is there no way to get her to come home,  I am sure she would soon get better if she would come home. Jeff you seem to think I had better come home too,4  well I dont know but you about are half right, but I am a great deal better off than you think, and Walt can tell you how foolish Mother, and the rest of you are to worry on my account. I dont much like the idea of resigning as long as we lay here right in front of the enemy, but I think I shall ask for a Furlough bye and bye, for a short time, if things remain quiet, and if I dont get it, I shall probaly send in my resignation, but if they would accept it or not I dont know. My pay is now about $125 a month and tell Mother, I have drawn several plans, for that little house in the Country, where, Mattie, and Sis, and the rest of us can go and visit her, and where she will have nothing to do but feed chickens and make pumpkin pies and sich like, and tell her if she will only take things cooly and not worry, things will all come out right. We have just heard of the splendid victory of Rosecrans at Murfreesboro.5 It seems to me very strange that away down in the Southwest our forces should accomplish almost anything they undertake, while here almost under the shadow of the Capitol of the nation where all the Big guns, are supposed to be, we can do nothing and yet we have plenty of as good men as any General could ask for, as was proved in the Fredricksburg fight,  I am pretty well satisfied that as yet we have had no one to command the Army of the Potomac that was a match for Lee, and it seems to me that in all the fights I have been in since we have been in the Potomac army (except the battle of South mountain) we have been most terribly outgenerald,  the men fight as well as men can fight, and I firmly believe that all we want, is some one competent to lead, to finish up this work in short order.6 I got a letter from boss Rac7 a day or two ago. Jeff write me often, and give my love to all. George W. Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nar.00002.html," Letter from Ralph Waldo Emerson to Salmon P. Chase ,","Jan 10, 1863",0.150414796682,"  Concord Massachusetts | 10 January 2, 1863  Dear Sir,2 Mr Walt Whitman, of New York, writes me that he is seeking employment in the public service in Washington, & perhaps some application on his part has already been made to yourself. Will you permit me to say that he is known to me as a man of strong original genius, combining, with marked eccentricities, great powers & valuable traits of character: a self-relying large-hearted man, much beloved by his friends; entirely patriotic & benevolent in his theory, tastes, & practice. If his writings are in certain points open to criticism, they show extraordinary power, & are more deeply American, democratic, & in the interest of political liberty, than those of any other poet. A man of his talents & dispositions will quickly make himself useful, and, if the government has work that he can do, I think it may easily find that it has called to its side more valuable aid than it bargained for. With entire respect, Your obedient servant, R. W. Emerson.  Hon Salmon P. Chase, | Secretary of the Treasury.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00760.html," Letter from Ralph Waldo Emerson to William H. Seward ,","Jan 10, 1863",0.150414796682,"  Concord | Masstts |  Jan. 10 | 1863  Dear Sir, Mr Walt Whitman, of New York, writes me, that he wishes to obtain employment in the public service in Washington, & has made, or is about making some application to yourself. Permit me to say that he is known to me as a man of strong original genius, combining, with marked eccentricities, great powers & valuable traits of character: a self-relying, large-hearted man, much beloved by his friends; entirely patriotic & benevolent in his theory, tastes, & practice. If his writings are in certain points open to criticism, they yet show extraordinary power, & are more deeply American, democratic, & in the interest of political liberty, than those of any other poet. He is indeed a child of the people, & their champion. A man of his talents & dispositions will quickly make himself useful, and, if the Government has work that he can do, I think it may easily find, that it has called to its side more valuable aid than it bargained for. With great respect, Your obedient servant, R. W. Emerson.      Hon. William H. Seward2, | Secretary of State.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00761.html," Letter from Ralph Waldo Emerson to Walt Whitman ,","Jan 12, 1863",0.150686794506,"  Buffalo    |  12 Jany 1863  Dear Sir, I am very sorry to be so late with my reply to your note, which was received by me just on leaving home to go to Canada, & thence to some of your West N.Y. cities, a journey which has left me no leisure for writing notes to diplomatists, until today.3 If you wish to live in that least attractive (to me) of cities, I must think you can easily do so. Perhaps better in the journalism than in the Departments. You will see that I have dated my note from my known residence.4 With best hope, R. W. Emerson Walt Whitman, Esq. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00334.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Jan 13, 1863",0.150822793418,"  Camp of 51st N.Y.V. near Falmouth   Jan 13th/63 Dear Brother. We have just come off Picket,  everything along the river and in the camp is just the same as when you left,1  I am still liveing in Capt Francis's2 tent as I have not been able to get one of my own. I have been expecting every day that we would get orders to move our camp, where we could get wood and water, without going as far for it, as we have to here. Once we had orders to be ready to move the next morning but before morning came, the orders were countermanded, I have had Two letters from you since you left, and Two from home and this morning I got one from Heyde. All at home seems to be going on well, Jeff writes strong for me to resign and come home3  Heyde writes that Hannah is quite sick and almost helpless,  Poor Han I am afraid she has a hard life,  as for Heyde, he is certainly a fool, and I think a scoundrell. He writes me a great deal of stuff about Han  and among other devilish lies he says that he is told that on Han's last visit home, Mother told her She must never turn her thoughts there for a home again. The whole tenor of his letter shows that he wants to get rid of her, and I am sure she must be liveing in a perfect Hell. He says that while he was gone away she was taken worse and had to depend on the Neighbors to take care of her, and that some aquaintance of hers was about writing to her friends, to let them know how she was situated,  Walt you or Jeff must certainly go on there and see how things are, and make some arangements for bringing her home. If you can go  write on to mother and have her send you some money and dont fail to attend to it immediately as I feel quite worried about Han. I received a Brooklyn Eagle yesterday with your letter published,4  I send you 50 cts which I wish you to buy Postage stamps with, and send them to me as soon as conveinent, as we cant buy any here. Capt Sims and all the rest are well and hearty. I got a letter from boss Rac5 a few days since. Let me hear from you as soon as you get this and tell me what you propose to do in regard to Han. I will write again soon. G. W. W."
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00396.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Jan 13, 1863",0.150822793418,"  Brooklyn, N. Y. Jan 13th 1863 Dear brother Walt, Mr Lane1 handed me your note yesterday and I enclose the within $6, $5 from myself and $1 from Mother.2 I wish Walt that I could do more and will try to collect a little something. I have made one or two attempts already but failed, entirely. Have you written to any of your driver friends,3 if you could strike them I should think you might get something. Probasco4 sent you $5 yesterday and Mr Lane would have sent you some to-day but I told him that I thought that it would be better for all concerned if we put a little time between the letters. I am in hopes to raise a few dollars more in a week or two which I will send you. I wish you would take either Lane's or Probasco['s] money and keep an exact account of what it does and send them the particulars of just the good it does. I think it would assist them (and the rest of us) in collecting more  You can understand what an effect twould have, twould give us an opportunity to show what immense good a few shillings even will do when rightly applied  besides twould please the person sending the money hugely twould bring his good deeds under his nose We have had some two or three letters from Heyde, directed to you. He talks like a d   m fool. He says that he saw that your feelings and sympathies were excited by the things that you saw and says that he would desire to call them a little nearer home, and then follows a lot of stuff ending with the request that you will come on and get Han and bring her home, as he cant paint. The miserable skunk. I would like to get a fair chance at his ugly mug.5 Mother has written to him that Mat will come on after Han, and we are now waiting a reply. The day after each letter came to you mother would get one from him, stating that he was under the influene of quinine and soda, and that he had boils, on his rump bone, and that his blood was bad (d   m his blood) and that he couldn't paint) and that charity, public charity, would have to relieve them, and a hell of a lot of other things all meaning that he wants to shake Han off. Undoubtedly we shall have her home before long. He says she is sick, but I think that if she was she would write home herself. It makes mother feel pretty bad. that combined with all her other troubles, I think, shows on her. She of course is with Mat and I most of the time and we try to make things as pleasant as possible  Ed and Jess are the same as usual Mr Lane says that we ought to do something to help you to get a situation there  If we can do any thing in the way of letters let us know. Lane thinks that you might do something with Dana.6 Can you? Did you get the papers that I sent you, I sent 15 copies.7 Walt write me as often as possible as you cannot imagine how interesting they are to me. We all read them, Lane Probasco &c &c. They make us see things through new eyes Mother is about as well as usual. Mattie ditto. Sis is growing more interesting than ever, and more mischiefous than the old dickens  she talks of you and Uncle George quite often  Mother and Mat send their love. Mat says she is much obliged for her letter and will answer it herself soon.8 What are you doing and how are you getting along? Things the same as usual with me. Write me soon and often  We had a long letter from George to-day  He says he thinks that he will try for a furlough and that if they wont let him have it that he may resign. I rather think Walt that he is more tired than he lets us know. I wish to God that he would come home, I think that it would add 10 years to Mothers life. Write him. With love from all dear brother  Good night Jeff. P.S. Botsford9 also got his note and will send you something before long. George wrote for $10. which I sent him to-day T. J. Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/wwh.00004.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Thomas Jefferson Whitman ,","Jan 16, 1863",0.151230790154,"  Major Hapgood's, cor 15th & F sts | Washington, Friday mn'g, Jan 16.  Dearest brother, Your letter came last evening containing the $6.1 Two days since I received one from Probasco,2 containing $3 (not 5 as you mention.) I send a note, same mail as this, acknowledging the latter. I shall, either by letter giving specific names, hospitals, No. of the particular beds, and dates, or more likely by a letter in print in newspaper, for I am going to print a sort of hospital journal in some paper, send you and Mr. Lane3 and Probasco, a pretty plain schedule of the manner of my outlays of the sums sent by them to the hospital soldiers through me   as it would interest you all, as you say. Meantime, dear brother, do not crowd the thing in the least   do not ask any one when it becomes unpleasant   let it be understood by our engineer friends &c. that I have mentioned the subscription affair as forwarded, to be left entirely to their sense of what they wish to do, and what they think it would be discreet for them to do. I did not wish you to send $5, for I do not think it right   it is entirely too much   nor mother $1   I think she has enough, present and future, to attend to   but since it has come, I shall use it   I distributed between 2 & $3 yesterday. What ought to be done by our family, I feel that I am doing, and have done myself. I have made $27 while I have been here, and got the money, and I should think I have paid in little items and purchases and money gifts at least $10 of that to the soldiers   I wouldn't take a thousand dollars for the satisfaction it has been to me   but, Jeff, I postpone till we come together again, any attempt to make you realize this whole thing. Of course you have received, (probably about to-day,) a long letter I have written to Mother.4 Nothing definite appears to-day about the status or movements of the Army of the Potomac, but my guess, at a venture, is, that they either have moved down the Rappahannock toward Potomac, or are about moving. Whether it is to cross or not and whether for an attack or march, or whether as some think to Fortress Monroe, is quite unknown. You must not be alarmed at hearing of an advance, or engagement   at a distance it is more appalling than it deserves to be thought   Some think a portion goes west to Rosecrans.5 It is so dangerous and critical for the government to make any more failures like that at Fredericksburgh, that it seems incredible to be any repetition of that most complete piece of mismanagement perhaps ever yet known in the earth's wars.6 I have not heard from George   it is good that you got a long letter.7 Jeff, I feel that you and dearest mother are perhaps needlessly unhappy and morbid about our dear brother   to be in the army is a mixture of danger and security in this war which few realize   they think exclusively of the danger.8 "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/uva.00344.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Ralph Waldo Emerson ,","Jan 17, 1863",0.151366789066," Your letters from Buffalo have just come to hand. They find me still hanging around here   my plans, wants, ideas, &c gradually getting into shape.2 I go a great deal into the Hospitals. Washington is full of them   both in town and out around the outskirts. Some of the larger ones are towns in themselves. In small and large, all forty to fifty thousand inmates are ministered to, as I hear. Being sent for by a particular soldier, three weeks since, in the Campbell Hospital,3 I soon fell to going there and elsewhere to like places daily. The first shudder has long passed over, and I must say I find deep things, unreckoned by current print or speech. The Hospital, I do not find it, the repulsive place of sores and fevers, nor the place of querulousness, nor the bad results of morbid years which one avoids like bad s[mells]   at least [not] so is it under the circumstances here   other hospitals may be, but not here. I desire and intend to write a little book out of this phase of America, her masculine young manhood, its conduct under most trying of and highest of all exigency, which she, as by lifting a corner in a curtain, has vouchsafed me to see America, already brought to Hospital in her fair youth   brought and deposited here in this great, whited sepulchre of Washington itself   (this union Capital without the first bit of cohesion   this collect of proofs how low and swift a good stock can deteriorate   ) Capital to which these deputies most strange arrive from every quarter, concentrating here, well-drest, rotten, meagre, nimble and impotent, full of gab, full always of their thrice-accursed party    arrive and skip into the seats of mightiest legislation, and take the seats of judges and high executive seats   while by quaint Providence come also sailed and wagoned hither this other freight of helpless worn and wounded youth, genuine of the soil, of darlings and true heirs to me the first unquestioned and convincing western crop, prophetic of the future, proofs undeniable to all men's ken of perfect beauty, tenderness and pluck that never race yet rivalled. But more, a new world here I find as I would show   a world full of its separate action, play, suggestiveness   surely a medium world, advanced between our well-known practised one of body and of mind, and one there may-be somewhere on beyond, we dream of, of the soul. Not to fly off to these clouds, however, I must abruptly say to my friends, where interested, that I find the best expression of American character I have ever seen or conceived   practically here in these ranks of sick and dying young men   nearly all I have seen, (five-sixths I think of those I have seen,) farmers' sons from the West, northwest   and from Pennsylvania, New York, and from largely among the rest your Massachusetts, &c   now after great and terrible experiences, here in their barracks they lie   in those boarded Washington hospital barracks, whitewashed outside and in, one story, high enough, airy and clean enough   one of the Wards, for sample, a long stretch, a hundred and sixty feet long, with aisle down the middle, with cots, fifty or more on each side   and Death there up and down the aisle, tapping lightly by night or day here and there some poor young man, with relieving touch   that is one Ward, a cluster of ten or twelve make a current Washington Hospital   wherein this moment lie languishing, burning with fever or down with diarrhea, the imperial blood and rarest marrow of the North   here, at any rate, as I go for a couple of hours daily, and get to be welcome and useful, I find the masses fully justified by closest contact, never vulgar, ever calm, without greediness, no flummery, no frivolity   responding electric and without fail to affection, yet no whining   not the first unmanly whimper have I yet seen or heard. In the Patent Office Hospital, Dr. Stone,4 (Horatio Stone the sculptor   in his ward, some 150 men   he has been surgeon here several months   has had successive changes of soldiers in charge   some bad wounds, of course   amputations, sometimes rapidly followed by death, &c.   others from fevers, &c. &c.)   he told me last evening that he had not in memory one single case of a man's meeting the approach of death, whether sudden or slow, with fear or trembling   but always of these young men meeting their death with steady composure, and often with curious readiness    The Army (I noticed it first in camp, and the same here among the wounded) is very young    and far more American than we supposed   ages range mainly from 20 to 30   a slight sprinkling of men older   and a bigger sprinkling of young lads of 17 and 18    As I took temporary memoranda of names, items, &c of one thing and another, commissioned to get or do for the men   what they wished and what their cases required from outside, &c   these memoranda grow bulky, and suggest something to me   so I now make fuller notes, or a sort of journal, (not a mere dry journal though, I hope)   This thing I will record   it belongs to the time, and to all the States   (and perhaps it belongs to me)5    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/hav.00002.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to George Wood ,","Jan 17, 1863",0.151366789066,"  Washington, | Saturday morning Jan 17 '63.  Dear Mr Wood,1 So your generous heart moved you to send the sick and dying young men in the hospitals a handsome little contribution of money (toward $4). I thank you, dear sir, in their name, and in my own, as the organ of your charity. I have distributed part of it in Ward 6, (Dr. Leman, ward surgeon) Campbell Hospital   and shall to-day bestow the rest in the Patent Office Hosp.2 My friend, I must meet you soon again. Truly yours Walt Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00335.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jan 22, 1863",0.152046783626,"  Camp near Falmouth Thursday night  Jan 22d/63 Dear Mother. I have just written to Walt, and although it is pretty late, I must write you a few lines while my hand is in, to let you know that I am well and hearty. We have had a very heavy storm here for the last 48 hours, raining and blowing like great guns, but it appears to be about played out now. There has been a movement on foot here for the last Three days but I dont think it will amount to anything as I am afraid the storm has interfeered with the movement and spoiled Burnsides plans.1 The Army commenced to move from here early on Tuesday morning last, going somewhere up the river, but I dont know how far. I believe our Army Corps are the only troops left here, (but you musent say anything about it Mother or the rebs might hear of it and come over here and eat us all up)  my oppinion is, that it was intended to throw a heavy force accross the river, somewhere above here, and let them come down and attack Fredericksburg in the rear or on the flank while we occupied their attention in front, with our Batteries on this side of the river, but whatever the plan was, I believe it had to be given up, on account of the storm, or it would have been commenced before now. I forget whether I have written home, since I got the letter from Jeff, with the money, or not,  anyhow the money came all right. I got a letter from Walt. to night with a lot of postage stamps and envelopes allready directed some to you Mammy, and some to Jeff. Walt says he has a prospect of getting a pretty good berth in Washington.2 Heyde wrote me a letter a few days ago saying that Hannah was quite sick, and I immediately wrote to Walt to either go on there and bring her home, or make some arangement to have her come on at once.  and in his letter to night Walt says he is confident she is either home or on her way there. I hope she is not as sick as Heyde makes it apear, but we would all feel a great deal better satisfied if she was home. Mother tell her to write to me as soon as she gets home. Well Mother how are you all getting along,  Mattie and Sis I hope are well, somehow or another I cant help thinking of Sis as she was when I came away  I cant seem to make out how big she must be by this time, and I think if you would write me, how many pancakes she can eat I could tell about how much she has grown since I came away. Well Mother it is getting chilly sitting here in my tent as the fire has gone out, so I must bid you, good nightdear Mother          G. W. Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00883.html," Letter from Moses Lane to Walt Whitman ,","Jan 26, 1863",0.152590779274,"  Nassau Water Department, Brooklyn, Jany 26th 1863  Mr Whitman Dear Sir Enclosed I send you $5. from E. R. Durkee Esq2 $3. "" Mrs. E. R. Durkee $1. "" L. M. Smith Esq $1. "" Geo. H. Burgess Esq $5. "" G. T. Coleman Esq. .05 "" Willie Durkee .15 "" Miss Kate Lane $15.20. The contributions of Willie Durkee and my little girl are rather small but it takes all their spare funds for the week, and they are the only contributors thus far that will have to deny themselves anything on account of the amount of their contributions. I hope to be able to make you another remittance this week.  Very truly yours Moses Lane  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00336.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 1, 1863",0.153406772746,"  Camp near FalmouthVa.   Feb 1st /63 Dear Walt. Here we are yet in camp just the same as you left us, and I think by the appearance of things here we are likely to stay for some time. I have my log hut partly finished and should have had it completed long ago, but after I had cut the logs and had them brought here, orders came for us to be ready to move the next day so I used the logs for fire wood, and since then, the weather has been so stormy I could not do much to it. I suppose we will go on picket tomorrow, so that I wont have a chance to do anything to the house untill Wednesday, but I shall finish it this week, and as soon as I get it done, I want you to come down and see me. Frank Butler1 is helping me build it and is to occupy apartments in it. Your last letter to me is dated Jan 27th. You speak of haveing sent one the previous Saturday, encloseing one from home, and some money. I have not received it. I got a letter from Mother a day or two ago. She says they are all getting along after the old sort. Han has not got home yet, but Mother says she expects her before a great while. We had a regular old Northern snow storm last week, but it is nearly gone now but the mud is quite plenty just about hear. Capt Sims tells me to night that he has been promised a leave of absence for 10 days and will probaly start for Brooklyn in a day or two  I suppose he will call on you in Washington.2 As soon as he gets back, I shall apply, and if I dont get it I dont know but I will send in my resignation  as it is hardly a fair shake for some to go home two or three times a year while others cant get away at all, but I dont blame Sims at all for going whenever he can get a chance. Walt I think you had better write on to Mother and let her send you (by express) $20 of my money and bring it on here to me when you come, for if I go home I shall want it, as I may not have a chance to get my pay in Washington. Tom3 recd. a letter from you to night. Write as soon as you get this. Good night     G.W.W. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00337.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 6, 1863",0.154086767306,"  Camp near Falmouth Va. Feb 6th/63 Dear Walt. We have just received orders to cook three days rations and be ready to march immediately  I beleive the whole of the 9th Army Corps are ordered to report at Fortress Monroe. If so I suppose we will march to Aquia Creek, and go on board of Transports  My own oppinion is that Burnside1 is to collect a force at Fortress Monroe, and start off again on his own hook with a sepperate command. I wrote you a few days since,2 to send home for Mother to send you $20 by express and for you to bring it, when you came down here. Of course you will keep it, untill we get to some place where you can either send it by express or bring it yourself. We will probaly stay somewhere around Fortress Monroe for some time, if so you can take a run down there and see me,  I will write you as soon as we get there. I have my house nearly finished, and was going to have a nice warm place. Capt Sims3 left here yesterday for home on a leave of absence for 10 days. I was going to apply as soon as he came back and was makeing lots of reckoning of going home for a few days, but I suppose there will be no getting away now for some time. Walt, I have not received the letter you sent with the money, nor have I received any letter from you since the 27th of Jan. I wish you would write home telling them that we are going to leave here, as I dont know that I shall get a chance to write before we start. I will write to them as soon as we get to Fortress Monroe or wherever we may go. The mail is about closeing so I must stop. Good bye for the present G.W.W."
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00397.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 6, 1863",0.154086767306,"  Brooklyn, N. Y. Feb. 6th 1863 Dear Brother Walt, Mr Lane1 handed me the enclosed $11 to be sent to you for the soldiers $10. Contributed by Hill & Newman2 $1.        ""      ""  Henry Carlow3 Mr Lane thinks your last letter to me was a clincher.4 Newman, of the above firm was in the office and upon finding out what we were doing promised to give $10. Mr Lane, thinking perhaps that by sending the money immediately might save a life or at least help to do it, advanced the money and wished me to write you to-day. Mother and Mat are getting along with their colds but Sis is not so well to day. She seems to have more colds and her head is almost stopped up Poor little toad  I often wish that I could take it for her, however she gets along with it quite well and is not more cross than the law allows for a little one that has such a cold. If mother could be persuaded to let the scrubbing of the lower entry alone for a few days she would recover, but I believe that she is too much afraid of Mrs Brown,5 for this morning, and it was one of those cold rainy ones, she went to work and scrubbed as usual. I think they all have had the worst colds that I know of. How do [you] get along about your appointment, does it come and will it. Do you hear from George. What do you think about Han?, the lot, and matters in general.6 I think Walt, that mother has showed her age more within the last three or four weeks than I ever knew her to before Everything is just the same with me. I am getting along quite well, and if Mr Lane holds his position I shall eventually be all right. I think I shall be able to carry through my little ""real estate"" scheme without much trouble, and I think it is a good one.7 at least I must try, for I am ""in"" and I suppose I shall not be a true Whitman if I dont get dis-heartened, however I do not feel at all so just now. On the ""contrary quite the revarse""  You must write oftener, home, particulay Mr Lane. He likes much to hear from [you], every letter is productive of good, of course I mean those speaking of the manner of your visits to the Hospitals. Walt, you must be doing more real good than the whole sanitary Commission put to-gether8  Mr Lane, in conversation with a gentleman in the office, said yesterday that we ought [to] raise money enough to keep a 100 Walt Whitmans, support them and pay them, (if they could be found.) and by that means take the rough edge off the War. Tis indeed true. I am thankfull that you are there. Somehow I feel that as if George, God bless him, was a little safer while you are so near him and while you are doing so much good. Oh how I wish that he could come home now, without running any more risk, and for myself, I think that he ought to. If they go to consolidating the regiments I sincerely hope that by some accident, he may be left out.9 I really feel worried on mothers account. I know that if anything should happen [to] him that she could not stand it. However I suppose we must get along the best we can. With the exception of the colds, we are all in jolly good health  Mother has taken breakfasts dinner and supper I guess, with Mat and I ever since you went away. We call her up in the morning and if it is very cold I go down and make her fire while she works and eats breakfast with us. Then Ed comes along just as I leave and Jess is generally getting up when I go home to dinner. so we live. all send love to you Affectionately your brother Jeff"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00762.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Feb 6, 1863",0.154086767306,"  Washington, | Friday noon, February 6, 1863.  Dearest mother, Jeff must have got a letter1 from me yesterday, containing George's last letter.2 The news of your sickness, and the strange silence of Han made me feel somewhat gloomy. I wrote to George yesterday, conveying the news   and to-day I have sent him another letter, with much more comfortable news, for I was so glad to hear from Han, (her letter, enclosed in Jeff's, received this morning) that I wrote him right away, and sent Han's letter.3 Mother, I am quite in hopes George will get a furlough   may-be my expectations are unfounded, but I almost count on it.4 I am so glad this morning to hear you are no worse, but changed for the better   and dear sister Mat too, and sissy, I am so glad to think they are recovering.5 Jeff's enclosure of $10 through Mr. Lane,6 from the young engineers, for the soldiers in hospitals, the most needy cases, came safe of course   I shall acknowledge it to Mr. Lane to-morrow. Mother, I have written so much about hospitals, that I will not write any in this letter. We have had bad weather enough here lately to most make up for the delightful weather we had for five weeks after I came from home. Mother, I do hope you will be careful, and not get any relapse   and hope you will go on improving. Do you then think of getting new apartments, after the 1st of May? I suppose Jeff has settled about the lot7   it seems to me first rate as an investment   the kind of house to build is quite a consideration, (if any house,) I should build a regular Irish shanty myself, two rooms, and an end shed   I think that's luxury enough, since I have been down in the army. Well, mother, I believe I will not fill out the sheet this time, as I want to go down without delay to the P. O. and send George's letter, and this one. Good bye, dear mother, Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00338.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Feb 8, 1863",0.15435876513,"  Camp near FalmouthVa   Sunday Eve.  Feb 8th/63 Dear Mother, I have, to night, received a letter from Walt, encloseing two from Jeff (one dated Feb 3d and the other Feb 4th) and the one from Hannah, that Jeff sent him. Dear Mother how sorry I am to hear that you, and Mattie, and Sis, are not well, but as Jeff says in his last letter that you are all much better than you were the day before,  I do hope you have entirely recovered by this time. Mother I think you ought to be a great deal more careful of yourself, you know how much you have suffered from colds, and rheumatism and how long any thing of that kind hangs on to you, and Mammy you must remember that you cant expect to work and do as you used to, so I think you ought to let up, a little on yourself. Poor Han, I was so in hopes that she was home by this time. I am sure she must have seen a great deal harder times than ever I did, and I have more reason to feel anxious about her than she has about me. Still I hope she will soon be with you and then I feel satisfied she will soon be well,  She tries to make us think that she gets along pretty well, but I can see by her letter that she is not as comfortable as she would make us believe. Mother I know you will all do everything you can for her, but dont you think it would be well for Walt to go on there and see her, even if she did not feel well enough to come on home with him. But Mother I leave it altogather with you, at home, for I know, that you know what to do, better than I can tell you, and all I can say is do whatever you think best. We have been under marching orders for the last 48 hours, and I have it from pretty good authority that our Army Corps are ordered to report to General Dix,1 at Fortress Monroe. What we are to do there I dont know But I have an opinion that Burnside is going to have a sepperate command2 and that Fortress Monroe is to be the place of rendezvous, and if my opinion is correct we will probaly stay there some time. There was an order issued, from Head Quarters; a few days since, allowing two Officers (at one time) from each Regt. a leave of absence of 10 days. Capts Sims3 and Wright4 (from this Regt) are home now, and when they get back I believe it is my turn, so if this movement of ours dont knock the thing in the head (and I dont know how it will be) you may expect to see me home for a short time, before many days. I wrote Walt a few days ago, to write to you and have you send him by express $20 and for him to bring it down here to me. If we go to Fortress Monroe it will be almost as handy for him to come and see me as it is here, and if I can get a chance to come home I shall want the money to pay my way. I had my log house almost finished, when the orders came for us to get ready to move, and was going to have a nice warm house. but I am bound to have some good out of it and so I am useing it for fire wood. Good night Dear Mother, much love to all, G. W. W."
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00763.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Feb 9, 1863",0.154494764042,"  Washington | Monday morn'g, Feb. 9th / 1863.  Dearest mother, I write to enclose you a letter I have just received from George.1 His corps, (Ninth Army,) and perhaps one other, are to move either to Fort Monroe, or somewhere down there   some say Suffolk. I am in hopes that when they get there, George will still have a sight for a furlough   I have written him I should think four letters since the 27th Jan   (and have sent him Han's letter to you in one)   I hope he has got most of them before this   I am afraid the $3. change I sent him is gone   He will write to you as soon as he gets settled wherever they go to   I don't know as it makes any difference in respect to danger, or fighting, from this move   One reason they have to move from the Rappahannock, up there, is that wood is all gone for miles, forage is scarce to get, and I don't know as there is any need of there staying there, for any purpose   In some haste, dearest mother, as I am off to visit for an hour or so, one of my hospitals. Your affectionate son Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00398.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 10, 1863",0.154630762954,"  Brooklyn Feb. 10th   1863  Dear Brother I received your letter of yesterday morning.1 I am glad to hear that you are still visiting the hospitals and doing so much good. We are trying to do what little we can to furnish you with the necessary funds (in a small way to be sure) and the only thing that we are sorry about is that we cannot do more. The enclosed money is contributed by   Theo. A. Drake2  $2. ""Cash"" through John D Martin3  $2.   $4  both of whom are employed on the work under Mr Lane.4 Mr Lane has written a letter to Mr Webster5 the clerk of Seward6 that I spoke to you about and will send you a letter of introduction to him immediately. He tells me that he (Webster) is a ""politician"" and that he will help you without doubt provided that he thinks that it will not interfere at all with him. Or that is about the idea of what he said. We are all getting well at home  Sis has almost entirely recovered  Mat's throat is still quite sore and mothers cough was a great deal better, till she went and caught more but she is again getting well. We do not hear any more from Heyde so I presume that Han is getting better again and perhaps will soon be home. I hope so anyway I hope that George may be successful in getting his furlough.7 I saw Capt. Simms8 Sunday night, he had left George and the rest on Thursday morning. He was then well and engaged in building his hut. Simms looks very well indeed. My old friend Bill DeBevoise9 is home sick with ""weakness"" I suppose you might call it. He can hardly walk alone  He has been home about 2 weeks and has got so he can just get about a little. My friend J. W. Mason,10 (used to be in my party on the Water Works) was in Brooklyn on Saturday  He was then on his way to his fathers at Towando, Pa. and promised that he would call on you when he returned to the army  He is now a Capt. in the regulars. (5th Cavalry) I think I shall take a few of your letters and give them to George Wright11 (of the ferry) and let him see if he cannot collect a few dollars from the ferry hands  dont you think it would be a good idea. I think that he might be able to collect something quite handsome. I have not seen any of the ferry hands since you went away. We often wish that you and George could pop in on us just as we were about to sit down to dinner, particularly when we have ""Turk"" as sis calls it. Mother eats with us at almost every meal and I think living well is about all that keeps her up through all the trouble and worry that she goes through, for work and worry she will and I dont think the power of man can prevent it. Mat is nearly the same as usual  she is not very well and sometimes has to give up for a little while, but she soon buckels in again. Sis of course when she is well is just as big a little scamp as ever, more mischief-making than ever, if that is possible. Jess and Ed are I guess, in every respect are just the same. I met Andrew Rome,12 'tother day, he wanted to know how soon you would be in Brooklyn again  I told him I did not know and asked him to write you. How would it do for you to write to Wilke,13 detailing what you are doing, what we have contributed so that he might strike some of the big-bugs that he moves among or shall I give him the letters that you have written to us. advise me about it Mr Lane has about finished his reports and wishes me to tell you that he will now have some time to devote and thinks he will be able to raise some more money, however he will write you himself before long, a day or two. What about your chances for the ""position"" and what kind of a position do you expect to get. I sincerely hope that you might succeed and get detailed to New York.14 Try for it Walt and dont be discouraged if you do not succeed at first Do you write to dear brother George often, I wish he could honorably get out of it. Would'nt it be good if he was home just now to build my ""house""  I should like much to have it done by him, let him get a gang of men and pay him by the day. However I suppose it cannot be done in that manner and shall have to do it in some other. Dear Walt let me hear from you soon. All send their love to you and receive my best wishes for your health and success  I remain as ever your affectionate brother Jeff "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00339.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 12, 1863",0.154902760778,"  Camp of 51st N.Y. Vols.Newport News Va  Feb 12th/63 Dear Walt. Well here we are at Newport News, and glad enough to get out of the mud, in which the grand Army of the Potomac has lived moved, and had its being, ever since we first joined it.1 We arived here yesterday, and are encamped in a good dry place, and I hear we are to have new Tents in a day or two, so I think we will soon be nicely fixed. Walt if you have received the money from home, I wish you would send it on to me as soon as you can, as I think likely, that I will have a chance to go home (for 10 days) sometime next week. There is no Express Office here but it will come as far as Fortress Monroe which is 6 or 7 miles from here, and I will manage to go down there and get it. Probaly the best way would be for you to Enquire at the Express Office about what time, the money would reach Fortress Monroe, and write me, so that I will know when to go for it. I dont know, certain, that I can get, leave of absence, next week but I thnk my chances are pretty good,  there is nothing sure about these things, you know, untill a fellow gets the documents in his fist. Of course we know nothing at all, about what they brought us here for, but I rather think I was right in the surmise (in my last letter to you) about Burnsides2 organizeing a force for a seperate command. Anyhow I am glad to get out of the Potomac Army for it seems as if it would never be able to accomplish any thing,  And yet I believe it was as fine an Army (as far as their fighting qualities is concerned) as was ever seen. Well Walt I believe that I have nothing more to say, and as I am quite buisy to day getting things in shape I will stop writing and go to work. Good bye G. W. W."
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00399.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 12, 1863",0.154902760778,"  Brooklyn, Feb. 12th 1863 Dear brother Walt, I mailed a letter to you either last Friday or Saturday, containing $11. 10 from Hill & Newman and $1. from Henry Carlow  On Tuesday I again wrote you, sending you $4  �$2 from Theo. A. Drake and 2 from ""Cash"" through John D. Martin1  The enclosed $5 is from our friend Mr. E. Rae.2 He gave it to me last night   I left him a couple of letters to read and I want you to write him one of the same kind of letters asking him to show it to some of his friends and if they have anything to devote to the purpose for him to send it directly to you or through me. Walt, I know Rae is a liberal hearted man and through his friends he could do a great deal and I am confident that he could be more earnestly interested in the matter if you write him directly. Please acknowledge the receipt of this and the others (if received) so that I may be positive that the money is reaching you. Ive no doubt we shall keep dribbling along, a few dollars at a time, for some time yet. We are all about the same at home as when I last wrote. Mother is of course quite worried about the moving of the 9th Army Corps and very much disappointed that George will not have an opportunity to come home and see us.3 We are all getting well of our colds, last night Mother had a very bad sore throat but I made her some ""hot stuff"" and she was much better this morning. Mat and Sis have nearly recovered and are all right I guess. In George's letter he speaks of wanting $20. We think of sending it to him by Capt. Simms,4 who is now here, and I think it will be the better and safer way. I am really much disappointed that George should have to go in the thickest of the danger. I certainly feel that he is doing wrong if there is any possible way for him to avoid it. However I try to put as good a face on the matter as possible and sincerely hope for the best  Tis too bad that he should just have got his hut done and then have to go away and leave it.5 How goes matters with you Walt? Mr Lane6 will send you the letters I spoke of in a day or two. I wish you could make it so that you could visit George before they leave Fortress Monroe  Do if you possibly can. I am having a plan for a small 2 Story house (22 x 32) made and shall try to get Rae to build it for me. the only question that I am not clear on and am wanting advice is the position that I shall put on the lot, front or rear. I have almost made up my mind to set it so that a 65 or 70 x 20 foot lot can at any time be made in front, and the only objection to placing it in that position is the location of the privy in the next yard, which in this case would be right abreast of the center of the house thus7  I do not fear that it would amount to anything unless 'twould damage the cellar in some manner. Unless I am convinced that it will be some damage via thecellar I shall place it as above. Let me know what you think of it. (The above sketch is not at all in proportion, but may convey an idea to you what I mean)  The front lot will be quite ample, I think, (65 x 20) when you take in consideration that there will neither have to be a privy or cistern in the yard, and you will be able to have a gate in the ally which is quite an advantage. Mr Lane compliments me highly on my bargain and says I have done well. I hope I have but I am as ignorant about these matters as a baby. However I am bound to go through with it now, sink or tother thing. Dear brother write me. If you see dear dear Brother George tell him how fondly we looked for his coming home and assure him that we were all much, very much disappointed. All send their love to you and you may be assured you are never absent from our minds. Affectionately Jeff The enclosed letter Mr Lane gave me to send you, wishing me to say that undoubtedly this Mr Webster8 could help you and if he did it would be with the idea that it would help him somehow at some future period, That you must use him (Webster) if you can. Mr Lane sends his respects to you At Dinner time to-day Mother told me that Andrew had been discharged from the yard. Tis too bad but I presume it is on account of his not being there much of the time. I hardly know what Nancy9 is to do with her two children. Jeff "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00764.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Thomas Jefferson Whitman ,","Feb 13, 1863",0.15503875969,"  Office Major Hapgood, cor 15th & F. sts. | Washington, Feb. 13th '63.  Dear brother, Nothing new   still I thought I would write you a line this morning. The $4, namely: $2 from Theo. A. Drake and 2 [from] John D. Martin,1 enclosed in your letter of the 10th came safe. They too will please accept the grateful thanks of several poor fellows, in hospital here. The letter of introduction to Mr. Webster,2 chief clerk, State Department, will be very acceptable. If convenient, I should like Mr Lane3 to send it on immediately. I do not so much look for an appointment from Mr. Seward as his backing me from the State of New York. I have seen Preston King4 this morning for the second time   (it is very amusing to hunt for an office   so the thing seems to me just now   even if one don't get it)   I have seen Charles Sumner three times   he says every thing here moves as part of a great machine, and that I must consign myself to the fate of the rest   still [in] an interview I had with him yesterday he talked and acted as though he had life in him, and would exert himself to any reasonable extent for me to get something. Meantime I make about enough to pay my expenses by hacking on the press here, and copying in the paymasters offices, a couple of hours a day   one thing is favorable here, namely, pay for whatever one does is at a high rate   I have not yet presented my letters to either Seward or Chase5   I thought I would get my forces all in a body, and make one concentrated dash, if possible with the personal introduction and presence of some big bug   I like fat old Preston King, very much   he is fat as a hogshead, with great hanging chops   the first thing he said to me the other day in the parlor chamber of the Senate, when I sent in for him and he came out, was, ""Why, how can I do this thing, or any thing for you   how do I know but you are a secessionist   you look for all the world, like an old Southern planter   a regular Carolina or Virginia planter."" I treated him with just as much hauteur as he did me with bluntness   this was the first time   it afterward proved that Charles Sumner had not prepared the way for me, as I supposed, or rather, not so strongly as I supposed, and Mr. King had even forgotten it   so I was as an entire stranger. But the same day C. S. talked further with Mr. King in the Senate, and the second interview I had with the latter, (this forenoon) he has given me a sort of general letter, endorsing me from New York   one envelope is addressed to Secretary Chase, and another to Gen. Meigs,6 head Quartermaster's Dep't. Meantime, I am getting better and better acquainted with office-hunting wisdom, and Washington peculiarities generally. I spent several hours in the Capitol the other day   the incredible gorgeousness of some of the rooms, (interior decorations &c)   rooms used perhaps but for merely three or four Committee meetings in the course of the whole year,) is beyond one's flightiest dreams. Costly frescoes of the style of Taylor's Saloon in Broadway,7 only really the best and choicest of their sort, done by imported French & Italian artists, are the prevailing sorts (imagine the work you see on the fine China vases, in Tiffany's   the paintings of Cupids & goddesses &c. spread recklessly over the arched ceiling and broad panels of a big room   the whole floor underneath paved with tesselated pavement, which is a sort of cross between marble & china, with little figures drab, blue, cream color, &c). These things, with heavy, elaborately wrought balustrades, columns, & steps   all of the most beautiful marbles I ever saw, some white as milk, others of all colors, green, spotted, lined, or of our old chocolate color   all these marbles used as freely as if they were common blue flags   with rich door-frames and window-casings of bronze and gold   heavy chandeliers and mantels, and clocks in every room   and indeed by far the richest and gayest, and most un-American and inappropriate ornamenting and finest interior workmanship I ever conceived possible, spread in profusion through scores, hundreds, (and almost thousands) of rooms   such are what I find, or rather would find to interest me, if I devoted time to it   But a few of the rooms are enough for me   the style is without grandeur, and without simplicity   These days, the state our country is in, and especially filled as I am from top to toe, of late with scenes and thoughts of the hospitals, (America seems to me now, though only in her youth, but brought already here feeble, bandaged and bloody in hospital)   these days I say, Jeff, all the poppy-show goddesses and all the pretty blue & gold in which the interior Capitol is got up, seem to me out of place beyond any thing I could tell   and I get away from it as quick as I can when that kind of thought comes over me. I suppose it is to be described throughout   those interiors   as all of them got up in the French style   well enough for a New York [incomplete] "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/bos.00006.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to John Swinton ,","Feb 23, 1863",0.15639874881,"  Washington |  Feb. 23d, 1863.  John,2 I write to call your attention to an article, (Times correspondence,) I have just written & sent about the Military Hospitals here3   as they are so generally and sadly interesting to the public. You will easily recognize the article   I enclose you my address   write me a line about it, at your leisure   (to-morrow or next day.) Is William4 in New York   or where? The article is to be paid for. Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00593.html," Letter from John Swinton to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 25, 1863",0.156670746634,"  TIMES OFFICE, WEDNESDAY NIGHT 2 O'CLOCK.  My dear Walt    You will find the article you sent will be in the Times of this morning, when it is published. I have crowded out a great many things to get it in, and it has taken the precedence of army correspondence and articles which have been waiting a month for insertion. It is excellent   the first part and the closing part of it especially. I am glad to see you are engaged in such good work at Washington. It must be even more refreshing than to sit by Pfaff's privy2 and eat sweet-breads and drink coffee, and listen to the intolerable wit of the crack-brains. I happened in there the other night, and the place smelt as atrociously as ever. Pfaff looked as of yore. I read your article in proof and hope it's all accurate enough. ""The field large   the reapers few"" is the finest paragraph. Everything in New York moves on pretty much as usual. It's the old town   only different. My brother William3 sailed for Port Royal ten days ago   to be present at the attack on Charleston   if it is to be attacked.4 Do you know Conway of Kansas?5 He is a good man If you don't know him, and if he would be of any service to you in any way, I know he would be rejoiced to serve you, if you mentioned my name to him. The article has some things in that I could recognize you by, but not many. I like it better on that account than I should otherwise.   Hoping that Vicksburg may soon fall.   J. Swinton  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00340.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Feb 25, 1863",0.156670746634,"  Camp of 51st Regt.N.Y.V.Newport News Va   Feb 25/63 Dear Mother I have not written to you in quite a long time, as I have been waiting to find out something deffinite, about my chances of getting home for a few days. Just before we left Falmouth, Gen. Hooker1 issued an order alowing, two officers, at a time, from each Regt to go home for 10 days, but after the first two, from our Regt. got off, we were ordered here, and as Gen. Dix2 is in command of this Department,  of course we are subject to his orders and as soon as we got here what does Dix do but issue an order, saying that no furloughs would be granted, unless to save life or something of that kind. Mother you have no idea how hard it is, for a feller, (that tries to do his duty) to get any favors of that kind. There is a lot of dead beats that get off by playing sick, but a chap that eats as much and looks as hearty as I do dont stand much site at that. Gen. Smith3 who is in command of our Army Corps, said the other day he would see Dix and try and get permission to give our Corps furloughs on his own hook. If Smith succeeds, I shall probaly get a chance to come home before many days, but there is so much red tape and fuss that a fellow cant make much calculation on whats going to be done. Mother you dont know how I want to see you all, and if I can get home if only for ten days, it will be a great treat, and the way I will make the buckwheat cakes suffer will be a caution. Another thing I want to come home for is to get a suit of Clothes as the ones I have are getting pretty seedy and if I dont get home soon I have been thinking of getting measured here and sending on to Walt or Jeff to have me a suit made. Mother how are the Bank funds  are they getting low. I suppose the clothes would cost near $50 and if the funds are low I will wait untill we are paid, which I hope will be before a great while,  write me Mother as soon as you get this and let me know how things are with you. I shall have about $500 comeing at the end of this Month. I got a letter from Jeff last week saying that he had sent $20 to me and yesterday I went down to Fortress Monroe to the Express office and got the money,  the best way is to send on (by mail) the receipt that you get from the Express Co. as it is against the rules of the Co here to deliver the package without you have it. We have first rate quarters here and are liveing tip top. we can buy plenty of fish, and oysters, butter, or almost anything else in the way of grub. I have a bran new tent and when I get it fixed up to suit me, I will have a house good enough for any one. I got a letter from Walt last night,  he appears to be getting along well. We have had a grand revieu to day of the 9th Army Corps Old Dix was the big gun of the occasion and the 9th never made a better appearance. Our Regt could only muster 140 men, but when we came along with our old flag all torn to peices I saw the old Gen. eye the flag and Regt and shake his head,  Mother you havent written to me in a long while  I hope you are entirely well of the cold you had when you last wrote. good night all   much love   G W Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00341.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 25, 1863",0.156670746634,"  Camp at Newport News Wednesday night  Feb 25th/63 Dear Walt I have just written to Mother1 and although it is pretty late I will write you a word to let you know that I am flourishing as well as ever. Walt you see I aint got my furlough yet. We had no more than landed here, before Dix2 (who commands this Department you know) issued an order that no furloughs would be alowed except in case of sickness or in a case of life and death or something of that sort, so I dont know but they will jew me out of my chance after all. Gen Smith3 who is in command of our Army Corps, said the other day he would see Dix and try and get permission to give furloughs to our Corps, himself,  if he succeeds I will probaly get a chance to go anyhow I am going to make a big push for it. I got a letter from you last night dated I think the 22d  write often Walt and let us know how things are with you. I went down to Fortress Monroe yesterday and got the $20 Jeff sent me. If I dont get a chance to go home soon I shall have to get measured here, and send on to you, or Jeff, to get me a suit of clothes made but I rather think I will get home before a great while. Walt we have a splendid camp here. I have a bran new tent and when I get it fixed up to suit me, it will just be gay I tell you. If I find out for certain, that I cant get home very soon you must come down here and see a feller, and if I do go home you must come as soon as I get back,  I shall have my tent fixed up Bully in a day or two,  we have had a grand revieu to day by Gen Dix  the whole Army Corps was out, and as there is splendid grounds here for that kind of work we made a first rate appearance and everything went off with great applause &c Walt I am getting sleepy as it is almost 12 Oclock  so good night G W Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00856.html," Letter from Harper 's Weekly to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 26, 1863",0.156806745546," The Editor of Harpers Weekly begs to return the enclosed verses to Mr. Walt Whitman with his compliments and many thanks.1  Harpers Weekly Feb 26, 1863  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nar.00001.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Charles W. LeGendre ,","Feb 27, 1863",0.156942744458,"  Newport News Va   February 27th 1863 Lieut Colonel Chs LeGendre2commanding 51st Regt New York VolsSir Having been always with the Regiment since the Organization of it at New York which is now over 18 months, and in all the time never have been excuse from any duty whatever and having urgent business at home which demands my immediate attention, I beg leave of asking you hereby the favor of granting me, leave of absence for ten Days Very respectfullyYour obedient servant          George W. WhitmanCapt Co K, 51st N. Y. V."
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/uva.00345.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Nathaniel Bloom and John F. S. Gray ,","Mar 1, 1863",0.157214742282,"  Washington, March 19, 1863.  Dear Nat,1 and Fred Gray:2 Since I left New York, I was down in the Army of the Potomac in front with my brother a good part of the winter, commencing time of the battle of Fredericksburgh3   have seen war-life, the real article   folded myself in a blanket, lying down in the mud with composure   relished salt pork & hard tack   have been on the battle-field among the wounded, the faint and the bleeding, to give them nourishment   have gone over with a flag of truce the next day to help direct the burial of the dead   have struck up a tremendous friendship with a young Mississippi captain (about 19)4 that we took prisoner badly wounded at Fredericksburgh   (he has followed me here, is in Emory hospital here, minus a leg   he wears his confederate uniform, proud as the devil   I met him first at Falmouth, in the Lacy house,5 middle of December last, his leg just cut off, and cheered him up   poor boy, he has suffered a great deal, and still suffers   has eyes bright as a hawk, but face pale   our affection is quite an affair, quite romantic   sometimes when I lean over to say I am going, he puts his arm round my neck, draws my face down, &c. quite a scene for the New Bowery.) I spent the Christmas holidays on the Rappahannock   during January came up hither, took a lodging room here   did the 37th Congress, especially the night sessions the last three weeks, explored the Capitol then, meandering the gorgeous painted interminable senate corridors, getting lost in them, (a new sensation, rich & strong, that endless painted interior at night)   got very much interested in some particular cases in Hospitals here   go now steadily to more or less of said Hospitals by day or night   find always the sick and dying soldiers forthwith begin to cling to me in a way that makes a fellow feel funny enough. These Hospitals, so different from all others   these thousands, and tens and twenties of thousands of American young men, badly wounded, all sorts of wounds, operated on, pallid with diarrhea, languishing, dying with fever, pneumonia, &c. open a new world somehow to me, giving closer insights, new things, exploring deeper mines than any yet, showing our humanity, (I sometimes put myself in fancy in the cot, with typhoid, or under the knife,) tried by terrible, fearfulness tests, probed deepest, the living soul's, the body's tragedies, bursting the petty bonds of art. To these, what are your dramas and poems, even the oldest and the tearfulest? Not old Greek mighty ones, where man contends with fate, (and always yields)   not Virgil showing Dante on and on among the agonized & damned, approach what here I see and take a part in. For here I see, not at intervals, but quite always, how certain, man, our American man   how he holds himself cool and unquestioned master above all pains and bloody mutilations. It is immense, the best thing of all, nourishes me of all men. This then, what frightened us all so long! Why it is put to flight with ignominy, a mere stuffed scarecrow of the fields. O death where is thy sting? O grave where is thy victory? &c. In the Patent Office, as I stood there one night, just off the cot-side of a dying soldier, in a large Ward that had received the worst cases of 2d Bull Run, Antietam and Fredericksburgh, the surgeon, Dr. Stone, (Horatio Stone, the sculptor,)6 told me, of all who had died in that crowded ward the past six months, he had still to find the first man or boy who had met the approach of death with a single tremor, or unmanly fear. But let me change the subject   I have given you screed enough about death and Hospitals   and too much, since I got started. Only I have some curious yarns I promise you, my darlings and gossips, by word of mouth, whene'er we meet. Washington and its points I find bear a second and a third perusal, and doubtless indeed many. My first impressions, architectural, &c. were not favorable;7 but upon the whole, the city, the spaces, buildings, &c make no unfit emblem of our country, so far, so broadly planned, every thing in plenty, money & materials staggering with plenty, but the fruit of the plans, the knit, the combination yet wanting   Determined to express ourselves greatly in a capital but no fit capital yet here   (time, associations, wanting, I suppose)   many a hiatus yet   many a thing to be taken down and done over again yet   perhaps an entire change of base   may-be a succession of changes. Congress does not seize very hard upon me   I studied it and its members with curiosity, and long   much gab, great fear of public opinion, plenty of low business talent, but no masterful man in Congress, (probably best so.) I think well of the President. He has a face like a hoosier Michael Angelo, so awful ugly it becomes beautiful, with its strange mouth, its deep cut, criss-cross lines, and its doughnut complexion. My notion is, too, that underneath his outside smutched mannerism, and stories from third-class county bar-rooms, (it is his humor,) Mr. Lincoln keeps a fountain of first-class practical telling wisdom. I do not dwell on the supposed failures of his government; he has shown, I sometimes think, an almost supernatural tact in keeping the ship afloat at all, with head steady, not only not going down, and now certain not to, but with proud and resolute spirit, and flag flying in sight of the world, menacing and high as ever. I say never yet captain, never ruler, had such a perplexing, dangerous task as his, the past two years. I more and more rely upon his idiomatic western genius, careless of court dress or court decorums. I am living here without much definite aim, (except going to the hospitals)   yet I have quite a good time   I make some money by scribbling for the papers, and as copyist. I have had, (and have,) thoughts of trying to get a clerkship or something, but I only try in a listless sort of way, and of course do not succeed. I have strong letters of introduction from Mr. Emerson to Mr. Seward and Mr. Chase, but I have not presented them.8 I have seen Mr. Sumner several times anent of my office-hunting   he promised fair once   but he does not seem to be finally fascinated. I hire a bright little 3d story front room, with service, &c. for $7 a month, dine in the same house, (394 L st. a private house)   and remain yet much of the old vagabond that so gracefully becomes me. I miss you all, my darlings & gossips, Fred Gray, and Bloom and Russell and every body. I wish you would all come here in a body   that would be divine. (We would drink ale, which is here of the best.) My health, strength, personal beauty, &c. are, I am happy to inform you, without diminution, but on the contrary quite the reverse. I weigh full 220 pounds avoirdupois, yet still retain my usual perfect shape   a regular model. My beard, neck, &c. are woolier, fleecier, whiteyer than ever. I wear army boots, with magnificent black morocco tops, the trousers put in, wherein shod and legged confront I Virginia's deepest mud with supercilious eyes. The scenery around Washington is really fine, the Potomac a lordly river, the hills, woods, &c all attractive. I poke about quite a good deal. Much of the weather here is from heaven   of late, though, a stretch decidedly from the other point. To-night (for it is night, about 10) I sit alone writing this epistle, (which will doubtless devour you all with envy and admiration,) in the room adjoining my own particular. A gentleman and his wife,9 who occupy the two other apartments on this floor, have gone to see Heron10 in Medea   have put their little child to bed, and left me in charge. The little one is sleeping soundly there in the back room, and I, (plagued with a cold in the head,) sit here in the front, by a good fire, writing as aforesaid to my gossips & darlings. The evening is lonesome & still. I am entirely alone. ""O solitude where are the charms,"" &c &c. Now you write to me good long letters, my own boys. You, Bloom, give me your address particular, dear friend. Tell me Charles Russell's address, particular   also write me about Charles Chauncey.11 Tell me about every body. For, dearest gossips, as the hart panteth, &c. so my soul after any and all sorts of items about you all. My darling, dearest boys, if I could be with you this hour, long enough to take only just three mild hot rums, before the cool weather closes. Friday Morning, 20th   I finish my letter in the office of Major Hapgood, a paymaster, and a friend of mine. This is a large building, filled with paymasters' offices, some thirty or forty or more. This room is up on the fifth floor, (a most noble and broad view from my window.) Curious scenes around here   a continual stream of soldiers, officers, cripples, &c &c. some climbing wearily up the stairs. They seek their pay   and every hour, almost every minute, has its incident, its hitch, its romance, farce or tragedy. There are two paymasters in this room. A sentry at the street door, another half way up the stairs, another at the chief clerk's door, all with muskets & bayonets   sometimes a great swarm, hundreds, around the side walk in front, waiting. (Every body is waiting for something here.) I take a pause, look up a couple of minutes from my pen and paper   see spread, off there, the Potomac, very fine, nothing petty about it   the Washington monument,12 not half finished   the public grounds around it filled with ten thousand beeves, on the hoof   to the left the Smithsonian with its brown turrets   to the right, far across, Arlington Heights, the forts, eight or ten of them   then the long bridge, and down a ways, but quite plain, the shipping of Alexandria   opposite me, and in stone throw, is the Treasury building   and below the bustle and life of Pennsylvania avenue. I shall hasten with my letter, and then go forth and take a stroll down ""the avenue"" as they call it here. Now, you boys, don't you think I have done the handsome thing by writing this astounding, magnificent letter   certainly the longest I ever wrote in my life. Fred, I wish you to present my best respects to your father.13 Bloom and all, one of these days we will meet, and make up for lost time, my dearest boys. Walt.  Address me, care Major Hapgood, paymaster, U.S. Army, cor 15th & F sts. Washington. How is Mullen?14 give him my respects   How is Ben Knower?15 how the twinkling and temperate Towle? remember me to them.16  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00400.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 3, 1863",0.157486740106,"  Brooklyn, N. Y. March 3rd/63 Dear Walt: Yesterday I received your letter of Sunday.1 I was real glad to hear from you and began to wonder what had happen [to] you  About the house. I had my plan fixed up as I wanted it and left it with some three or four carpenters and got bids on it. much to my astonishment I found that what I was supposed would cost at 11 or $1200 could not be done for less than 20 or $2100  after thinking the matter over pretty thoroughly I have come to the conclusion that the best thing I could do would be to hold on to the lot and wait for cheaper times. I hardly would be willing to spend that amount of money in a house of that kind and I think it would be much better to wait till the character of the avenue is settled before building. And again, I find (by calculation) that the prospect is that the difference in prices in, say two years, will more than pay rent for that time and then there would be the interest money to pay besides. Dont you think I have acted wisely. I sent word to Blake2 word this morning that I would remain as I was and he sent back word that he would call and see me this week. That she bitch of Hell, the Brown, is trying her strongest to clear us out and I honestly think Walt that I shall just take and belt old Johny3 under the eye if he attempts any of his last summers games To day the bitch could do nothing better than spend an hour or two in getting the lid of the cistern up and has left it in the old dangerous style half on and half of[f] the hole  Mother tells me that Blake is altogether ""on their side""  one thing is sure that if he attempts any of his games I shall most certainly clear out. I rather think that Mother would rather that we would move as Brown is continually at her about Mats conduct and keeps her in continued hot water. Everything is going on as usual. I wish you would let me hear from you at least twice a week. I guess that I have received all your letters  Mother got your letter enclosing the $1.00 and is still like Oliver Twist.4 She has had some 3 letters from you with money in it. We had received the letter from George (that he spoke of in his letter to you) just before we got yours5  Mother wrote to George also Han yesterday. I wish you would tell George that if he cannot possibly get his furlough (if he should make his clothes look awful they might let him home to get a new suit) and will send on his measure we will have them made in good style and sent to him. As regards the money in the Bank, there is plenty left for that purpose. Mother had a letter from Han on Saturday  she seemed about the same although Heyde wrote in the latter part of the letter that she was not so well  the exertion of writing was too much for her6  Sissy is very well and is growing finely  She is great on the mischief, she is just getting at that age where she does it with ""malice aforethoughts"" I shall write you oftener hereafter  I have been so busy with plans specifications &c &c that I have not been able to write you as ofen as I would like. I think that I have a good bargain in my lot if I can manage to hold on to it. They are now asking $1500 for lots in the immediate neighborhood that are not as well located as the one I have bargained for How do you get along with your office hunting  do you meet with any encouragement. It must be a new life to you. Are you writing for any paper outside of Washington, if so what?7 You must have pretty good times generally, dont you  I should much like to see you for a good talk. Your note book will certainly have a good many strange things in it. What are they going to do to reinforce the army, will they have to enforce the conscript bill8 We have not been able to send you any money lately but hope that we shall before long. do you get any from any other source? Twill be hard for you to go to the Hospitals if you cant give the poor young heroes something. I think that it would be a good idea for you to write Mr Lane, tell him that you are out, and ask him if he could not get the young men around the office to subscribe 50 cts a month.9 I will, if he puts ""the questions"" amend that it be made a dollar, and should not wonder that we could send you quite a little sum every month. Of course you wont say I suggested it. We are all quite well and getting along as well as usual  will write you again in a few days. Dear Walt receive love from all and a kiss from Hattie Jeff."
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/wwh.00005.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Thomas Jefferson Whitman ,","Mar 6, 1863",0.157894736842," . . . town, I see.""1 I asked him if he meant George, and he said yes   he saw his name, Capt. George W. Whitman, U. S. A. in the newspaper list of hotel arrivals, at the Avenue House, two days before. I was quite dumb-foundered   went right away to the Avenue House, and searching the register, I found it was Capt. George J. Whitman, 3d Wisconsin Vol. So you see there are two Capt. George Whitmans in the Army. I was a great mind to ask to see the Wisconsin Whitman   but I didn't. I go to the Hospitals about the same as ever   the last week or so. I have been most every night to the Capitol, which has been all lit up   I should never get tired of wandering through the Senate wing at night   it is the most costly, splendid and rich-painted place in its interminable mazes (I wander around and lose myself in them) of corridors and halls, that I ever dreamed of, or thought possible to construct   The great Halls of the H[ouse] of R[epresentatives] and the Senate, are wonderful and brilliant at night   they show best then, (in some respects.) They are probably the most beautiful rooms, ornamented and gilded style, in the world. About what is called the Conscript Bill (an improper name) I hope and pray from the bottom of my heart that, if they (the Government) are indeed going on with the war, they will carry out that bill, and enrol every man in the land   I would like to see the people embodied en-masse   I am very sure I shall see that my name is in its place on the lists, and my body in the ranks, if they do it that way   for that will be something like our nation getting itself up in shape. The Bill however was really meant as a warning to Louis Napoleon, or any other foreign meddler. With my office-hunting, no special result yet. I cannot give up my Hospitals yet. I never before had my feelings so thoroughly and (so far) permanently absorbed, to the very roots, as by these huge swarms of dear, wounded, sick, dying boys   I get very much attached to some of them, and many of them have come to depend on seeing me, and having me sit by them a few minutes, as if for their lives. Jeff, I am very fat and hearty   I have found friends here   I met a lady in the street day before yesterday that was so much like Mat I could hardly keep from speaking to her. I guess she wondered what I stood and looked, and looked, at her so long for. She drest like Mat too, and was . . . "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/wwh.00006.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Mar 8, 1863",0.158166734666,"  Washington,  Sunday | March 8th 1863.  Dearest Mother, Jeff must have got quite a long letter, (three sheets,) I wrote Thursday or Friday last1   nothing particular. This is the fifth letter I have sent with shinplasters in   (Since George's $3 got lost I am more on the alert and mention them)    The poor Frenchman d'Almeida2I told you about in my last, got out of the Old Capitol prison this morning   has been in a week   it was a most ridiculous thing putting him in   he was as square a man as I am   while he was in, the chief officer of the prison laughed sarcastically one day at his broken English, and d'Almeida said, ""Sir you ought not to laugh   you ought much more to weep, to see a poor traveler like me in such a misfortune""   and Mr. Chief Officer immediately called the guard and sent d'Almeida to the guard-house for that awful offence of making such an answer. The guard-house is a nasty, lousy dungeon without light   in it was a nigger with his wrists in manacles, and four white deserters   there is among the Old Capitol prisoners a little boy of seven years old   he and his father were taken as secesh guerillas in Virginia, and the government is holding on to the child, to exchange him for some Union prisoner south, in an exchange. Mother, my heart bleeds at all sorts of such damnable things of one kind or another I meet with every day   it is not the fault of the President   he would not harm any human being   nor of Seward3 or Stanton4   but the heartless mean-souled brutes that get in positions subordinate but where they can show themselves, and their damned airs and pomposity   they think nothing of treating a man like the worst slave-owner is supposed to treat his niggers    Meanwhile the great officers of the government have every minute occupied with pressing business, and these wretches have full swing. It seems impossible that there could be in the Free States such tyrants, as many you see hereabout   This d'Almeida is a very modest man, a real French gentleman, poor, and quite distinguished as a traveler and man of science   and is a Professor in the Academy of France. He takes or appears to take his misfortunes very goodnaturedly   yet it must have cut pretty deep on some accounts, he suffered every humiliation. Well, dearest mother, how does it go at home? I hope you are none of you going to move   I hope it is arranged that you shall stay   there would be something dissatisfactory wherever you should go. I was real glad to hear Jeff had abandoned the idea of building, this spring   to attempt it without money is winding onesself round and round in the devil's own net.5 I saw Frederick Ellison here yesterday   he is a young man that used to be in Hughes's store there above Cumberland street6   he is in the 9th N. Y. Militia   has just come from Brooklyn, where he has been on a furlough    I would be glad to hear about Han   I must write to her very soon. I have not heard from George since. Yesterday I spent the day at Emory Hospital   a very needy place   I gave out a great many things, and about $4 in money   it was a good day. I was covered with mud, getting there. (I dont mean good weather, it rained hard)    Walt  Jeff, I shall write a few lines soon to Mr. Rae   also to the firm that contributed the $10.7 I have not yet rec'd the engravings. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00401.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 9, 1863",0.158302733578,"  Brooklyn, N. Y. March 9th/63 Dear Walt, Much to our joy and surprise George made his appearance among us on Sunday morning.1 He arrived home about 11 Ock on Saturday night but we all happened to be abed and he did not wake us up but went to his room and made himself shown at about 8ock in the morning  He is well and looking first rate, pretty well played out as regards cloths, but we will fix him up in that respect this afternoon  He wants me to ask you if you can find out if he can get his pay in New York and if so at what office and hour. Please find out what you can about it and answer me at once. He has some $500 coming to him and would like to get it here if he can. Please write me at once will you Walt. Of course we were all wonderfully glad to see him. I think he looks well. He certainly is well pleased with his position and I think it would be hard to get him to leave it.2 He could only get 10 days and that will hardly be time for him to see and shake hands with all his friends. 'Tis a pity it could not have been for 20 or 30 days, it certainly ought to have been. We are all in our usual good health. Mother, George says looks younger than when he went away. I think she looks better than when you left. Mattie, Sis and the rest are all well. I received a long letter from you Saturday. I like much to hear from you   you must write often. About your office hunting3  I suppose you will have to wait a long time before it amounts to anything but patience will bring something undoubtedly Hoping to hear from you immediately, I remain yours affectionately Jeff."
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00121.html," Letter from Justus F. Boyd to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 10, 1863",0.15843873249,"  Cohoctah, Michigan, March 10, 1863 Mr. Whitman  Dear Sir I am seated in an easy chair pen in hand trying to scribble a few lines to you. I expect it will take me all day to write this for I cant sit up but a few moments at a time. I was taken down with chills & fever when I got to Pittsburg. I stayed there from Saturday night until Monday morning before any train left I dont think I ever was so sick in my life as I was in Pittsburg I about gave up there that I never should get home alive, but there was a Dr there he gave me some medison he said that would take me home & it did. We was behind time at most every place we changed cars so we had to wait I expected to have got home in three days at the outside but instead of three I was six. It dont look much like winter here there is not a parrticle of snow on the ground & its about such weather as it was in Washington although its not quite so muddy There hasnt been any sleighing here this winter & there wont be now its to late in the season They are making maple sugar in this part of the world now when I get well I will eat some for you but I suppose you think that wont do you much good. I tell you I am glad I am out of that Hospital & when I get into another to stay I will let you know it. Oh how are you getting along with your office I am in hopes you have recd it before this time I begun to think that your office & my discharge had gone to the same place now I have got my papers I think you had ought to receive yours I cant write any more this time my hand trembles so I can hardly write but I will try & do better next time give my best respects to Mr & Mrs O Connor.2 Yours &c.   PS Write soon  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.01007.html," Letter from James Redpath to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 10, 1863",0.15843873249," Walter Whitman, Esq., Washington. Dear Evangelist: The inclosed note2 may interest you, and therefore I send it. I wrote to Mr. Emerson to get him to interest some of his friends (he has several rich ones who give away large sums to various good causes) in your Christian Commission Agency. I trust that the result will be what I hoped.  Yours Very Truly, James Redpath.  Remember me to Mr. and Mrs. O'C.3 and Mr. Eldredge.4  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00402.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 12, 1863",0.158710730314,"  Brooklyn, N. Y. March 12th/6[3] Dear Walt, I wrote you last Monday1 asking if you could send me any information in regard to George's getting his money in New York. I have not heard from you yet but hope to to-day. I [want you] now, if you possibly can get them to me by or before Tuesday morning next to send me those two shirts for George  He wants them very much indeed  Nothing that he can buy will make him half as comfortable. The thought just strikes me that perhaps you are using them yourself, if so all right, or if you want one and can send him one why do so. If you are not using them I think it would be a ""big thing"" for George to get them as they would be very useful both winter and summer. If you send them direct either to George or myself.2 We are all well. George is enjoying himself hugely and I shall feel sorry enough when he has to go back. All send love to you. affectionately Jeff. Mother wrote you a letter asking you to send on the shirts but when I left home this morning I forgot it so I wrote this one. will send mothers letter this P. M.3 "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/wwh.00007.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Thomas Jefferson Whitman ,","Mar 18, 1863",0.159526723786,"  Washington | Wednesday, March 18, 1863.  I suppose George must be about leaving you to-day,1 to return to his regiment   and I can realize how gloomy you will all be for two or three days, especially Mother. Dear mother, you must keep up your spirits, and not get downhearted. I hope you are all well   I think about you all every day   is Mary home?2   you must write me all about every thing   I suppose the bundle of George's shirts, drawers, &c came safe by Adams express. I sent it last Saturday, and it ought to have been delivered Monday in Brooklyn. I did not pay the freight. Last Monday 16th I wrote to Mother, and sent her some shinplasters. Saturday previous I sent a note home, enclosing the express receipt.3 Jeff, I wrote a letter to the Eagle,4 and sent it yesterday   if it appears, it will probably be to-day or to-morrow (or next day.) I wish you would look out for it, and buy me 20 of the papers, (the afternoon it appears,) and send them, the same as you did the other letter, direct care of Major Hapgood, the same   put the engravings (20 of the large head) in the same package   the postage will be at the rate of ½ cent per oz. You leave one end partially unsealed. Send them as soon as convenient, after the letter appears, but no such dreadful hurry. I suppose you have been in quite a state of pleasure and excitement home, with the visit of dear brother George. I was much pleased to hear by mother's letter that he was so sought for, and treated with so much attention   He deserves it all   you must tell me all the particulars of his visit. The Hospitals still engross a large part of my time and feelings   only I don't remain so long and make such exhausting-like visits, the last week   as I have had a bad humming feeling and deafness, stupor-like at times, in my head, which unfits me for continued exertion. It comes from a bad cold, gathering I think in my head. If it were not that some of the soldiers really depend on me to come, and the doctors tell me it is really necessary, I should suspend my visits for two or three days, at least. Poor boys, you have no idea how they cling to one, and how strong the tie that forms between us. Things here are just the same with me, neither better nor worse   (I feel so engrossed with my soldiers, I do not devote that attention to my office-hunting, which is needed for success.) Jeff, you must give my best respects to Mr. and Mrs. Lane, they have enabled me to do a world of good, and I can never forget them. I see you had a great Union meeting in the Academy of Music5   it is impossible to tell what the government designs to do the coming season, but I suppose they will push on the war. The south is failing fast in many respects   D'Almeida,6 the Frenchman I wrote about, told me that he was besieged every where down south to tell (for confederate money) any and every thing he had, his clothes, his boots, his haversack, &c &c. Then their niggers will gradually melt, certain. So the fates fight for us, even if our generals do not. Jeff, to see what I see so much of, puts one entirely out of conceit of war   still for all that I am not sure but I go in for fighting on   the choice is hard on either part, but to cave in the worst   good bye, dearest brother. Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00310.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 19, 1863",0.159662722698,"  [Brooklyn, March 19, 1863]1 [Dear Brother Walt,] I had commenced a letter to you but as it embraced abt what Mammy has said I will not send it just now. I will send the paper2 &c to day I guess. I am sorry that you omitted to put in Probasco's3 name in the list of those that sent money, could it be easily corrected. You will hear from me in a day or so.    Jeff"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00137.html," Letter from Charles S. Kingsley to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 21, 1863",0.159934720522,"   Dear Walt I scribble a few words to you that you may know I received your letter and that I delivered the enclosed one to Gray2 (not knowing where to find Bloom)3 on Saturday night. Rather, I left it for him, at his house. I read your letter yesterday (Sunday) at Freds. A Doctor Phillips of the army, a great friend of Charlie Russells,4 arrived last night and called upon me. We meet at Freds to day at two O.C[lock] and I suppose we will have a big time. I saw Ben Knower5 walking on Fifth Avenue yesterday escorting his pretty sister. Freitsh6 sends you his compliments, respects Etc. Etc. Fred and Bloom are both in excellent condition. Fred is now on Wool's7 staff and is just back from a tour of inspection among the forts down east, including Portland, Portsmouth, Boston, Newport, New London Etc. Etc., firing off all the guns to test their effectiveness Etc. But to appreciate the history of this tour of inspection you should hear it from Fred your self. It is very funny     When last I saw Bloom, ten days or so ago he was just getting over a catarrah of the [illegible]. Poor Bloom, he didn't smoke, nor drink, and I presume he was very miserable. As I write a pugilistic duo, in the alley beyond me, have just ended an ""affaire d'honneur."" The smaller of two wicked, naughty boys, is weeping and wiping a bloody nose on the ragged sleeve of his jacket. The victorious youth is about to throw a small quantity of mud at the conquered one, and that he may not soil his fingers therewith he has picked up a piece of barrell hoop upon the end of which he has scraped up the quantum suf. He does not throw with great precision for the conquered person after dodging the first shower from the victors improvised catapult, runs rapidly into his mothers room in the tenement house opposite and finds therein a shelter from the foe. I shall write a long letter one of these fine days Walt and will give you all the news of interest that I can glean.   Until then, may all be secure with you, Walt and believe me, Truly Yours  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00403.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 21, 1863",0.159934720522,"  Brooklyn, N. Y. March 21st 1863 Dear brother Walt, I have not written to you for the last day or two thinking that I would wait till I could send the prints that you wanted,2 and I also wanted to send a large picture of George with them. Harrison3 promised me them to-day and upon calling he told me that he had spoiled the large ones in the printing. However I got a dozen of the kind (I send you a specimen) and I think it's good, dont you  I shall get the large ones by the middle of next week and I will send you one immediately. I wish you could have been home when George was here, 'twas a great pleasure to be with him. I'm sure he enjoyed himself well and I know that we all did. The bundle of shirts &c that you sent to him were first rate and although we had hard work to make him take them all yet I packed them all in his ""traps"" almost without his knowing it. By the way Walt in regard to those wollen shirts that I sent down to George by you I am real sorry that I did not know that you or he was not using them for I have wanted them pretty bad myself and should have got you to send them to me before. They were all that I had and I had wore them up to the time that you went away. If you do not use them, and you dont think George will want them for the present, (my reason for thinking that George will not want [them] is that we had such hard work to get him to take all that you sent him) I wish you would send them back to me. Understand me Walt, if you do not use them yourself  if you do, why they will do me as much good as if I had them  In regard to moving, I have given up all ideas of building for the present. I had several bids on the plan for a little house that I had made and they wanted 22 & 23. hundred dollars to build it, so I caved. Things go along with me about as usual. Everything in the way of eating and wearing is awful high, but I manage to make enough to keep my head above water yet. I think (am quite confident) that I shall manage to hold on to the lot without trouble and if I do shall be perfectly satisfied. Undoubtedly we shall all live right along just the same as usual, Browns4 and all. I have been quite often lately to the Opera  Rather queer and expensive for these hard times aint it? But I take a small dose every time (25 or 50¢ worth)  Walt I wish you could hear a man that is singing here by the name of Bellini.5 He plays the same parts that Amodio used to but possesses the (to me) most wonderful voice, with the single exception of Bertina6 (of old) that I ever heard  He is in looks and acting almost a likeness of Bertina [(]the tenor whom we used to admire so much) and indeed his voice is almost the same, just a little lower, but fully having all those wonderful qualities of pathos and feeling  He certianly would carry you back to the old Castle Garden and Bertina singing ""Spirit O'Gentil""7  The tenor (Mazzoleni) is excedingly good. An immense quantity of rather an unfa[i]ling voice, with a little overdosing the action, and a constant ""tremolo"" (rather of the hand organ style) but after all good and following on the heels of Brignoli, who has by not singing when advertised and cutting the work, and lazy action, he has made an immense success in New York  The woman8 is just the same, only a little more so, and they both make an immense point in letting themselves out in all the choruses, more so than I ever heard before. In Verdi's9 music it is wonderfully grand  I most particularly hope you will hear Bellini. Monday Morning   At the same time that I mail this I also mail the bundle of Engravings and papers directed as usual.10 We are all well and jolly as usual. We are having glorious spring weather and sissy wants to know if I wont write and tell Uncle Walt to come home and take her out on Fort Green11  I took her out yesterday P. M. and after walking around a while took the car and went over to New York, returning she walked from the ferry all the way home. Good for less than a 3 year old wasn't it? Let me hear from you soon. All send their love,    Affectionately Brother Jeff"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00765.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Mar 31, 1863",0.161294709642,"  Washington March 31, 1863.  Dearest mother, I have not heard from George, except a note he wrote me a couple of days after he got back from his furlough   I think it likely the regiment has gone with its corps to the west, to the Kentucky or Tennessee region 1   Burnside at last accounts was in Cincinnati   Well it will be a change for George, if he is out there   I sent a long letter to Han last Saturday, enclosed George's note to me. Mother, when you or Jeff writes again, tell me if my papers & MSS are all right   I should be very sorry indeed if they got scattered, or used up or any thing   especially the copy of Leaves of Grass covered in blue paper, and the little MS book ""Drum Taps,"" & the MS tied up in the square, spotted (stone-paper) loose covers   I want them all carefully kept. Mother, it is quite a snow storm here this morning   the ground is an inch and a half deep with snow   and it is snowing & drizzling   but I feel very independent in my stout army-boots, I go any where. I have felt quite well of my deafness and cold in my head for four days or so, but it is back again bad as ever this morning. Dear mother, I wrote the above, in my room   I have now come down to Major Hapgood's office. I do not find any thing from home, and no particular news in the paper this morning   no news about the Ninth Army Corps, or where they are. I find a good letter from one of my New York boys, (Fifth Avenue)   a young fellow named Hugo Fritsch,2 son of the Austrian Consul General   he writes me a long first-rate letter this morning   he too speaks about the opera, (like Jeff) he goes there a good deal   says that Medori,3 the soprano, as Norma, made the greatest success ever seen   says that the whole company there now, the singers, are very fine   all this I write for Jeff & Mat   I hope they will go once in a while when it is convenient    It is a most disagreeable day here, mother, walking poshy and a rain and drizzle    There is nothing new with me   no particular sight for an office, that I can count on. But I can make enough with the papers, for the present necessities   I hear that the paymaster, Major Yard,4 that pays the 51st, has gone on West. I suppose to Cincinnati, or wherever the brigade has gone   of course to pay up   he pays up to 1st of March   All the Army is going to be paid up to 1st March every where. Mother, I hope you are well and hearty as usual   I am so glad you are none of you going to move   I would like to have the pleasure of Miss Mannahatta Whitman's company, the first fine forenoon, if it were possible   I think we might have first rate times, for one day at any rate   I hope she will not forget her Uncle Walt5   I received a note from Probasco,6 requesting me not to put his name in my next letter   I appreciate his motive, and wish to please him always   but in this matter I shall do what I think appropriate   Mother, I see some very interesting persons here   a young master's mate, who was on the Hatteras, when surprised & broadsided by the Alabama, Capt. Semmes7   he gave me a very good acc't of it all   then Capt. Mullin,8 U. S. Army (engineer), who has been six years out in the Rocky Mt's, making a gov't road, 650 miles from Ft. Benton to Walla Walla   very, very interesting to know such men intimately, and talk freely with them   Dearest mother, I shall have great yarns to spin, when I come home   I am not a bit home sick, yet I should [like] to see you & Mat, very very much   One thinks of the vimmen when he is away. Walt Shall send the shirts in a day or two. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00486.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Apr 2, 1863",0.161566707466,"  Paris Kentucky   April 2d/63 Dear Mother, I have only time to write you a few lines to let you know that I am well and hearty, as we are not yet, to the end of our journey and we expect to leave here in the course of an hour or two. As soon as we get to our destination (which I think is not very far from here) I will write you again, and tell you all about the sights I have seen, since we left Newport News, which was on the 26th of March,  I have not heard a word from home since I came back to the Regt. but I suppose there must be some letters somewhere on the way to me,  I wrote you the night after I got back to Newport News, telling you that we expected to leave there soon, but I suppose you will be quite surprised to see that we are away down here in old Kaintuck,  We are now about 70 miles from Cincinnati Ohio. I like the country about here first rate and think likely we will have a good time. I believe there is no large force of Rebs, in this State, but they say, there is a good many small bands of Gurilas, that scive around and do considerable mischief. We had a pretty long ride in the cars, having come by Rail all the way from Baltimore but it was not quite as bad as marching, although I got pretty well tired of it. Dear Mother I hope you have not worried about not hearing from me in some time,  as soon as we get settled, somewhere in Camp, I will write to you regular. I hope you are all well. Mother put Mattie in mind of her promise to write to me, and tell Sis, to harness up Uncle Jess and chase Aunty Brown's parrot as much as she likes.2 Good bye All. G. W. Whitman3"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00404.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 2, 1863",0.161566707466,"  Brooklyn, N. Y. April 2nd 1863 Dear brother Walt, I intended to have written you yesterday but did not have an opportunity. Everything is going along all right with us except Andrew is real sick with his throat.1 He cannot talk at all and eats but with the greatest agony. He has had some doctor attending him that I think has treated him very badly. I am going to have him have an interview with Dr Ruggles2 this Eve, and hope he will be able to do something for him at once. Andrew, himself, seems to think that he is a gone case, but I cannot think as badly of him as that. I will write you again tomorrow what Ruggles says. Mother received your last letter with the shin plasters all right, and in regard to your papers, Mss &c they are all carefully put up, everything, even the smallest scrap is packed up so you will certainly find everything that you left at home all right3 About George. We do not hear from him. He wrote mother that he would certainly write her again befor he left Newport News and as long as she did not hear from him she might be sure that he was there. I have an idea that the 51st were left behind, although it is hard to tell about it. I should write to George to-day if I knew that he was still down to Newport News.4 Walt I should like to have letters from you much oftener  I am real worry to hear that the trouble in your head has again made its appearence. I can tell how you must feel for I am having something of the same kind myself but in a much milder form than you are. Dr Ruggles has been quite sick with the same thing but has recovered. Indeed almost everyone that I know has had a bad time with cold &c in the head. I hope dear Walt that you will speedily recover. Mother is as well as usual  Mattie is also quite well. We have not heard from Han for some little time. I suppose that she is about the same and I fear that she will be a long time in getting well.5 Hattie is as well and interesting as usual. Yesterday she had an immensely bad fall on the back part of her head. She was sitting in the chair at the sewing machine and reached over to get a small piece of stuff to stitch, leaned too far and fell striking the back part of her head pretty hard against the frame of the Extension table leaves  We bathed her head for a long time with cold water and this morning although the swelling was not all gone she appeared abt as well as usual. I was much frightened though at first I can tell you. Walt do you ever have a chance to get hold of any of the scientific reports that Uncle Sam prints. Would it be possible for you to obtain a copy of the Pacific R. R. Exploration &c Reports.6 I should like much to get hold of anything in that line, and would be much obliged to you if you could get them for me. I find them of great use in giving me ideas about my business and they are too cursed costly to buy  Look around you and if you catch anything send it along will you I will write you again to-morrow Yours Affectionately, Jeff"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00405.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 3, 1863",0.161702706378,"  Brooklyn, N. Y. April 3rd 1863 Dear brother Walt, I mailed a letter to you yesterday promising to write you again to-day. Ruggles1 came up and saw Andrew last eve. and had quite a lengthy interview  He said that the stuff that he was taking was abt as good for him as he could take and to continue but that the thing that would cure him would to be very careful of himself and to breathe nothing but the best and freshest air. Drink none, stay at home nights sleep in a well-ventilated room &c &c and be careful to work out-doors  I walked down with him (Ruggles) afterward and he told me that it was a pretty bad case, that he couldnt take anything that would help him particularly. That the trouble was very low down in his throat and that such cases often ended in consumption. He said that the best thing that he could do would be to get work away from the sea-coast if possible. I hope Andrew will take better care of himself in future. The Dr. will see him again in 6 or 8 days The enclosed $5.0 Mr Lane2 sends you  He wished me to say that he would write you himself but could hardly get time. He told me to tell you that he intended the money for your own especial benefit  That you could not stay there wihtout its costing you something and that you could do this amt of good to the soldiers by telling them good, cheerful things and letting them look at you.3 The amt of it is I suppose he thinks that as you are giving all your time to the Hospitals that you must want a little money yourself. It is certainly characteristic of the man. I told him I would take it and send it to you and tell you what he said but that you would probably apply it as you had the rest. Anyway you must write him abt it. He told me that the man Crany4 would send you some more too, or had promised to. I wish you would write Mr Lane.5 Mother had a letter from Heyde to-day. He says that Han is not any different. The whole of his letter is taken up with abuse of George for not coming on when he had his furlough. And after a long rigarmarole he winds up with saying that he has no accomodations for anyone. Nice pup aint he. Oh I wish to God he had been in Hell before we ever saw him.6 Poor Han I hope she will get able to come home. Han had received your letter telling her that George had been home. Mother wrote Han that George was home and that he would come and see her but that his furlough was so short that twould be impossible and received a reply from Heyde that he would not give the letter to her for he was afraid it would excite her too much. We supposed of course, however that she knew that he had been home, but it seems that she did not know it till she received your letter. Mother has written her to-day and I send one of his little pictures. I believe that Hattie has received no injury from her fall  she appears to-day abt the same as usual. She is growing finely and is as smart as a child of her age ought to be. All the rest the same as usual  I am going to try to get Mat to go to the Opera to-morrow to the P. M. performance  I want her to hear this company before they leave.7 I spoke yesterday abt Public doc. I of course mean scientific ones  those I should be glad to get.8 Write me as much and as often as you can  What do you think abt George, & where is he? Yours affn, Jeff"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00594.html," Letter from Will W. Wallace to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 5, 1863",0.161974704202,"   Friend Walter I have not forgotten you in the wanderings from Washington here.  After five days and nights jolting in the cars I reached this point and was put on duty instanter   And such duty!  Why I have worked night and day and it appears there is more to do now than when I came. They only allow one steward to each Hospital, and it is an irksome office when such is the case. I am doing finely and in the course of a few weeks I think will have some leisure time. The Hospitals here were in a destitute condition, compared with those of the North. When I came to this Hospital they had no clothes to change one fourth of the patients. I immediately appealed to my lady friends and patriots in Philadelphia, and they have sent me on a fine lot of sanitary stores, yet not enough for the wants of the many admitted. Our Hospt is a large five story building and accommodates between 300 & 400 patients, most of whom are wounded in the continual skirmishing about Murfreesboro and Franklin. I have never had better health in my life, perhaps I can explain it to you. I have five young ladies who act in the capacity of nurses   i e, one of them is French, young and beautiful to set your eyes upon. Can you not visit us and note for yourself? I think a change of climate will be beneficial. How are Jack and Amos?2 I wish you would give me Amos's address, as I have lost the one he gave me. My regards to them and hope they are out of Campbell Hospital. What became of poor Dick? I have been so busy I have neglected all correspondence so you will readily forget the seeming neglect   Hoping to hear from you at an early period I remain  Very respectfully  Your humble  Will Wallace  To the Prince of Bohemians Walt Whitman.  P..S. Send me that promised photograph and as soon as I find out your quarters I will return compt Will I will tell you of the many secesh at the next writing  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00406.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 6, 1863",0.162110703114,"  [April 6, 1863]1 [Dear Brother Walt,] As I was abt putting these in the envelope my eye caught this blank place and I thought that 'twas a pity to let such an opportunity go. It looked like waste. Walt, how I should like to see you, do you look the same as ever or has the immense number of unfortunate and heartworking cases given you an sobre and melancholy look.2 I sometimes think, when I get thinking abt you, that it must have that effect upon you. But then the cases that you releive and those dear lives that you save must bring back the old look again. Do you suppose that you will long continue where you are? Do you think Anything will come of your trying to get office?3 I suppose it is merely a question of time and patience as regards the office. I am in hopes to be able to have a small some of money sent you every week hereafter in this way  I will ask Lane4 to see how many names of those around in and abt. the W. W.5 will consent to give $1 per month regularly to be sent to you for Hospital purposes. I have no doubt but that some 25 or 30 names could be had and if we could send you $6 or $7 weekly twould be quite a big thing. We think then that we shall call you ""The B. Watr Works soldiers Aid society"" with power. Seriously, I think twould be a good thing and that I can come [by] it. I sent you $5 last week, did you get it. Twas from Mr Lane. Twould make you laugh to see little Hattie brush her hair and teeth. I am almost afraid she will clean them to death. She is tremendious proud of her things that Uncle Walt sent her. Twould please you to see how finely she is growing. Every day I give her a little exercise in singing two or three notes only. I think she could be made a fine musician and am going to try it.6 She often asks when you are coming home to take her out on Fort Greene.7 She often gets one of you[r] pictures and calls it her dear Uncle Walt. She knew Georges picture at once, which I think proves it to be pretty good. Mattie is as well as usual, she has no work and has not had hardly since you went away, and I am glad she has not8  Mother is first rate except she works to hard  I wish she wouldnt  she is foolish to clean house so much. Walt do write me a good long letter Jeff. The enclosed $10 I got from Van Anden9 "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00407.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 11, 1863",0.162790697674,"  Brooklyn, N. Y. April 11th 1863 Dear Walt, The two books you sent me (also one to Mr Lane)1 came all right. I am extremely obliged to you for it all and shall, Oliver Twist like, ask for more.2 I should dearly love to get together a set of the Pacific R. R. Explorations and Reports and intend to do so. I hope you will be able to send me some of the other Vols. I told you that I had written to Boston for a Report on the Hoosac Tunnel,3 that also has come and I have already found it of great use to me in solving two or three questions that I was not up in. I believe that the best information about Engn'ring is to be got out of reports of this character. I shall, as you suggest keep a sharp lookout for Vol. 124 and shall buy it if I come across it. If you, in looking around the second hand book stalls, see any Engnring works please write me what they are and the price. I am very much in want of a copy of ""Wisbachs Mechanics""5 but cannot meet with it in New York. I have been quite disappointed in not getting a letter from you to-day. I certainly thought I should. I sent you a letter on Tuesday last with the $10 from Van Anden6 and a letter from Han and one from George also a long one from me   6cts worth   I hope you received it  The things by Express came all right. George's bundle was 6/ and the last $1.00. Hattie has got entirely over her fall7 and is as healthy as a child can be, she is growing finely. I am sure twould please you to see her, she is as smart as can be, talks perfectly plain, without the least babyishness. Just below us in the same street there is a young lady from down east, she comes in to see Mat every day or two. she talks in the down east fashion, saying ""cant"" as if it was made of rrs. the other day she said so before sis. Sissy says ""Why dont you say cant, thats no way to talk, carnt"" which quite took our young lady aback. And yesterday one of the Hearkness8 children was in our rooms and they were talking about rolling their hoops. one told sis   4½ yrs old   that she had rolled her hoop down the ""teet""  sis says ""I rolled mine down the street  thats the way to say it""9  She often wonders when you are coming home to take her out and show her the ships and steamboats. Mat is first rate and well, she has no work and consequently is living quite like a Christian. we often talk about you and wonder how you are getting along  Mat often speaks about how she should have felt if she had gone with you. How much better it was that she did not, wasnt it.10 Mother is quite well and a little worried about not hearing from you and George  I feel quite concerned about Andrew  I have had Ruggles11 see him twice now  Ruggles says that he has a bad, very bad throat and about the only thing that will cure him will be his going away from the coast back in the interior somewhere  He says that it is hardly possible to give any medicine for such a complaint and the more one takes the worse he is off. However he says if Andrew takes the right care of himself he may recover here.12 I wish he could get something to do away from here, back in the interior. I have great faith in that for diseases of the kind like his. I will write you every day or two and keep you posted how he is. I should be glad to have you give the Capt Mullen13 you spoke of a letter to Mr Lane, very glad indeed. I like to become acquainted with such men, It is education to me and I find I am in need of a great quantity of that article. by all means, if he has not left, give him a letter to Mr Lane. Well Walt, I will, after wishing you pleasure and success, bid you good night affectionately Jeff."
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00408.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 13, 1863",0.163062695498,"  Brooklyn, N. Y. April 13th/63 Dear Walt, We hardly know what to think of not hearing from you  we certainly expected to have a letter from you this morning. Mother is quite anxious and of course fears that something has happened to you. Walt write to me at once wont you. I have written you two letters, one containing the $10 that Van Anden owed you, and another I mailed you last Sat. eve.1 Mother gave me a letter to mail you on Monday but I forgot it till to-day. You must not tell mother about it. We are all well and as jolly as usual. Andrew does not seem to get much better. He was at our house to-day to dinner  his voice is [still?] so that you can hardly here him speak.2 We had a letter from George yesterday. He was at Mt Sterling Ken.3 He seems to feel quite well and satisfied. Mother had a letter from Heyde. He says that she must fix up her third story room for Han an him and a lot of stuff. He says that Han must come home. He says that Han wants him to take a house and let her [take?] a man and wife to board. He wants to know what he shall do with his business. How should he get along. All of which I am sure I dont know how Mother can answer him. He is a case. I dont know what to think abt him. Walt I havnt time to write you a long letter, and indeed I havnt anything to write about. I hope to hear from you soon. All send their love, Hattie particularly. affectionately, Jeff."
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00766.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Apr 15, 1863",0.163334693322,"  Washington,  Wednesday | forenoon, April 15, '63.  Dearest Mother, Jeff's letter of the 11th, acknowledging the books, also the one about five days previous, containing the $10 from Van Anden, came safe.1 Jeff's letters are always first rate and welcome   the good long one with so much about home, and containing Han's & George's, was especially so. It is a great pleasure, though sometimes a melancholy one, to hear from Han, under her own hand. I have writ to George   I wrote last Friday   I directed the letter to ""Lexington or elsewhere, Kentucky""   as I saw in a letter in a Cincinnati paper that Gen. Ferrero2 was appointed provost marshal at Lexington   the 51st is down there somewhere, and I guess it is about as well off there as anywhere   there is much said about their closing up the regimental companies   that is, where there are ten companies of 40 men each, closing them up to five companies, of 80 men each. It is said the government purposes something of this kind   it will throw a good many captains & lieutenants out   I suppose you know that LeGendre3 is now Col. of the 51st   it's a pity if we havn't Americans enough to put over our old war regiments   (I think less and less of foreigners, in this war   what I see, especially in the hospitals, convinces me that there is no other stock, for emergencies, but native American   no other name by which we can be saved.) Mother, I feel quite bad about Andrew4   I am so in hopes to hear that he has recovered   I think about him every day   he must not get fretting and disheartened   that is really the worst feature of any sickness   diseases of the throat and bronchia are the result always of bad state of the stomach, blood, &c. (they never come from the throat itself)   the throat and bronchia are lined like the stomach and other interior organs with a fine lining like silk or crape, and when all this gets ulcerated or inflamed or what not, (it is Dr. Sammis's mucous membrane, you know,) it is bad, and most distressing   medicine is really of no great account, except just to pacify a person   this lining I speak of is full of little blood vessels, and the way to make a real cure is by gentle and steady means to recuperate the whole system   this will tell upon the blood, upon the blood vessels, and so finally & effectually upon all this coating I speak of that lines the throat &c. But as it is a long time before this vital lining membrane (very important) is injured, so it is a long time before it can be made all healthy & right again   but Andrew is young & strong enough and good constitution for basis   & of course by regular diet, care, (& nary whiskey under any circumstances) I am sure he would not only get over that trouble, but be as well & strong as he ever was in his life. Mother, you tell him I sent him my love, and Nancy the same, and the dear little boys the same. The next time you or Mat goes down there you take this & show him. Mat, I am quite glad to hear that you are not hurried & fretted with work from New York this spring   I am sure I should think sis & housekeeping &c would be enough to attend to. I was real amused with sis's remarks, and all that was in the letter about her. You must none of you notice her smartness, nor criticisms, before her, nor encourage her to spread herself nor be critical, as it is not good to encourage a child to be too sharp   and I hope sissy is going to be a splendid specimen of good animal health   for the few years to come I should think more of that than any thing   that is the foundation of all, (righteousness included)   as to her mental vivacity & growth, they are plenty enough of themselves, and will get along quite fast enough of themselves, plenty fast enough   don't stimulate them at all   dear little creature, how I should like to see her this minute   Jeff must not make his lessons to her in music any ways strong or frequent on any account   two lessons a week, of ten minutes each, is enough   But then I dare say Jeff will think of all these things, just the same as I am saying.5 Jeff writes he wonders if I am as well and hearty, and I suppose he means as much of a beauty as ever   whether I look the same6   well, not only as much, but more so   I believe I weigh about 200 and as to my face, (so scarlet,) and my beard and neck, they are terrible to behold   I fancy the reason I am able to do some good in the hospitals, among the poor languishing & wounded boys, is that I am so large and well   indeed like a great wild buffalo, with much hair   many of the soldiers are from the west, and far north   and they take to a man that has not the bleached shiny & shaved cut of the cities and the east. I spent three to four hours yesterday in Armory Hospital   One of my particular boys there was dying,7 pneumonia   he wanted me to stop with him awhile   he could not articulate   but the look of his eyes, and the holding on of his hand, was deeply affecting. His case is a relapse   eight days ago, he had recovered, was up, was perhaps a little careless   at any rate took cold, was taken down again and has sunk rapidly. He has no friends or relatives here   Yesterday he labored & panted so for breath, it was terrible   he is a young man from New England, from the country   I expect to see his cot vacated this afternoon or evening, as I shall go down then. Mother, if you or Mat was here a couple of days, you would cry your eyes out. I find I have to restrain myself and keep my composure   I succeed pretty well. Good bye, dearest mother. Walt. Jeff, Capt. Mullen8 remains here yet for some time. He is bringing out his Report. I shall try to send you a copy. Give my best respects to Dr. Ruggles.9 Mother, my last letter home was a week ago to-day   We are having a dark rainy day here   it is now ½ past 3   I have been in my room all day, so far   shall have dinner in ½ an hour, and then down to Armory. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00409.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 20, 1863",0.164014687882,"  Brooklyn, N. Y. April 20th 1863 Dear Walt, I was glad to hear   from your letter to mother   that you had received my letters   containing the $10. &c.1   Everything is all right with us,   the same as ever. Mary and Louisa2 are down with us. Came on Friday   will probably stay till Wednesday, down shopping  They are all well. Ancel3 is down on the coast fishing. George4 is still on the cars. The rest are all the same.5 We have quite a joke on Mother which I bring forward almost every time she asks me if I have heard from you, which is everytime she sees me  'tis this. during the time that we were so long without hearing from you Mother really got very much worried about you and when I went home to dinner on the day before we got your letter, she asked me as usual if I had heard and when I told her no she said ""well I cannot imagine what is the matter with Walt. I feel very much worried indeed. one thing is sure he is either sick or else he is coming home""  You can readily imagine how mother looked when I poked fun at her and repeated it to her. She says that she didnt say it so it sounded like I say it, &c  Dear Mother, she would be mighty glad to see [you] I know, but I love to plague her  she will then take Hattie and say that sis is the only one of us that has got any sense, and if it wasnt for you and George she should not have much to live for &c, &c  I hope you will be able to get me a copy of Capt. Mullens' report6  also I hope you will give him a letter to Mr Lane.7 I like to know such men  I can learn from them. I spend quite a good deal of time lately with Dr Ruggles.8 He comes in the office quite often and I call at his house and see him. There are a good many things about him to like, I think and he seems to like me. I still continue to go to the Opera once in a while. To night is said to be the last night of the season but I hardly think that they will leave.9 it seems to me to be paying to well. The houses are generally full. We have not heard from Han since I wrote you last. Mother thinks that she will get Mary to go on for her pretty soon. I suppose it is best that Han should come home but I fear for Mother. I fear that she will undertake in her usual way to do too much  I was awful mad at Heydes last letter. If I had been in his neighborhood I should certainly have booted him. He is a damn fool. Hattie is in first rate condition  she reminds me more of a young colt or dog than a child. It seems to be perfect pleasure for her just to get out into the open air. She dont seem to care to go any where, only outdoors. Yesterday Mother locked the front basement door while she went to some other part of the house a moment   to keep Hattie in. Hattie went in the front basement and shoved the window and was out and away leaving her Opandmouth in amazement abt how she got out. But altogether she is as affectionate and good as it seems to me for a human being (and I dont suppose there is anything better) to be.10 Mattie sends her love. affectionately Jeff."
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00180.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Thomas P. Sawyer ,","Apr 21, 1863",0.164150686795," Tom,3 I thought I would write you a few words, and take chances of its getting to you   though there is great excitement now about the Army of the Potomac,4 no passes allowed, mails held over, &c. &c.   still I thought I would write, and take chances. There is nothing very special here about Washington   they seem to be shoving troops off from here now all the time, in small or large bodies   the convalescents are doing guard duty &c in the Hospitals   even the old regiments doing patrol, & provost, are sent off. So I suppose something is up. Tom, I was at Armory last evening, saw Lewy Brown,5 sat with him a good while, he was very cheerful, told me how he laid out to do, when he got well enough to go from hospital, (which he expects soon), says he intends to go home to Maryland, go to school, and learn to write better, and learn a little bookkeeping, &c.   so that he can be fit for some light employment. Lew is so good, so affectionate   when I came away, he reached up his face, I put my arm around him, and we gave each other a long kiss, half a minute long. We talked about you while I was there. I saw Hiram6 but did not speak to him. He lay pale and pretty sick, sound asleep. I could not help stopping before I came away, and looking at him   it was pitiful to see him, so pale, sound asleep   Poor Hiram   he is a good boy   he gets no better. Johnny Mahay7 does not get any better, in Ward E. He is going to have an operation performed on him by Dr. Bliss.8 Tom, I do not know who you was most intimate with in the Hospital, or I would write you about them. As to me, there is nothing new with me, or my affairs. I manage to pay my way here in Washington, what I make writing letters for the New York papers, &c. When I stopped here, last January, on my return from Falmouth, I thought I would stop only a few days, before returning to New York, and see if I could not get some berth, clerkship or something   but I have not pushed strong enough   have not got anything   and I don't know as I could be satisfied with the life of a clerk in the departments anyhow. So I have hung along here ever since. I guess I enjoy a kind of vagabond life any how. I go around some, nights, when the spirit moves me, sometimes to the gay places, just to see the sights. Tom, I wish you was here. Somehow I don't find the comrade that suits me to a dot   and I won't have any other, not for good. Well, Tom, the war news is not lovely, is it? We feel disappointed here about Charleston9   I felt as blue about it as anybody. I was so in hopes they would take the conceit out of that gassy city. It seems to me always as if Charleston has done the biggest business of blowing & mischief, on a small capital of industry or manliness, of any city the world ever knew. But for all our bad success at Charleston, and even if we fail for a while elsewhere, I believe this Union will conquer in the end, as sure as there's a God in heaven. This country can't be broken up by Jeff Davis, & all his damned crew. Tom, I sometimes feel as if I didn't want to live   life would have no charm for me, if this country should fail after all, and be reduced to take a third rate position, to be domineered over by England & France & the haughty nations of Europe &c and we unable to help ourselves. But I have no thought that will ever be, this country I hope would spend her last drop of blood, and last dollar, rather than submit to such humiliation. O I hope Hooker10 will have good success in his plans, whatever they may be. We have been foiled so often in our plans, it seems as though it was too much. And our noble Army of the Potomac, so brave, so capable, so full of good men, I really believe they are this day the best in the world. God grant Hooker may have success, and his brave boys may at last achieve the victory they deserve. O how much I think about them though. I suppose that does no good. Tom, you tell the boys of your company there is an old pirate up in Washington, with the white wool growing all down his neck   an old comrade who thinks about you & them every day, for all he don't know them, and will probably never see them, but thinks about them as comrades & younger brothers of his, just the same.11 These lines may never reach you, as it is talked here that the Army of the Potomac is in for a real fighting march, at last, may be something desperate, it may continue some time when it once begins. Tom, I thought I would write you a few words, hoping they might reach you. Dear comrade, you must not forget me, for I never shall you. My love you have in life or death forever. I don't know how you feel about it, but it is the wish of my heart to have your friendship, and also that if you should come safe out of this war, we should come together again in some place where we could make our living, and be true comrades and never be separated while life lasts   and take Lew Brown too, and never separate from him. Or if things are not so to be   if you get these lines, my dear, darling comrade, and any thing should go wrong, so that we do not meet again, here on earth, it seems to me, (the way I feel now,) that my soul could never be entirely happy, even in the world to come, without you, dear comrade.12 And if it is God's will, I hope we shall yet meet, as I say, if you feel as I do about it   and if [it] is destined that we shall not, you have my love none the less, whatever should keep you from me, no matter how many years. God bless you, Tom, and preserve you through the perils of the fight. Good bye, my darling comrade, my dear darling brother, for so I will call you, and wish you to call me the same. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00119.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Thomas Jefferson Whitman ,","Apr 22, 1863",0.164286685707,"  Broadway Hotel, Lexington Ky  April 22d/63 Dear Brother Jeff You may think im'e rather putting on style, heading my letter from a hotel! but the fact is Jeff, I just live in style at present I do. Our Regt are encamped at Winchester about 16 miles from here. We were paid on saturday last, and on sunday the Col.2 told me the men wanted me, to bring their money on here, and Express it, so day before yesterday afternoon I started, on horseback, and a regular job I have had of it, I worked all day yesterday and have just finished this afternoon. I brought on about $11,000 and had to put it all up in packages of from 5 to 400 dollars each, so you may imagine it was something of a job. The money all came out right to a cent and I feel relieved of quite a responsibility to night.3 I sent $350 to Mother,  tell her not to be afraid to use it. Kentucky is the most beautiful Country I ever saw,  the people seem much more inteligent, and every way better, than in any other part of the South I have ever been. I like Ky first rate and am very glad we were brought here, as the liveing is good, and there is none of that devilish, Virginia mud to travell through,4  the roads here are the finest I ever saw  as hard and firm as a floor, so that its no trouble at all to march 15 or 20 miles. Jeff I got a letter from you a few days ago, and was very sory to hear of Andrew's illness, but hope he is better now. I think if he would be more careful of himself he would soon be entirely well, as his lungs are not affected at all, and I hope he will be carefull as that throat disease wont stand being trifled with,5  Mother, Mattie, and Sis, you say, are quite well, and right glad am I to hear they are so. Han I should think from your letter is about the same as she has been for some time past,  how strange it is she dont write oftener herself and let us know just how she is. Heyde is about the most contemptible little cuss I ever saw, and as for his letters you cant put any dependence in a word he says. I had a letter from Walt a couple of weeks since  he says he is entirely over his cold and is now all right again. We have been at Winchester about a week and may stay there some time, but you know there is no telling any thing about it. There has been an order issued from the War Department to consolidate the companies in all Regts of less than 500 men, and Muster out of service the Col. Major, and surplus line Officers. Our Regt will only make 3 or 4 companies, so there will be a good lot of us to go home,  I hear to night that Burnside has issued an order countermanding, the consolidation order in this department for the present but surely something will have to be done with the small Regts, and you must not be surprised to see me comeing home in the course of a few weeks, for if the War Department order is carried out (as I think it will be) I shall surely come home,  It seems almost too bad to kill off the old Regts in that kind of way, and I should think it would be much better for the service to fill them up, either by recruiting or draft. I am going back to the Regt tomorrow, and will write again soon. I shall probaly know more about the mustering out business in a few days. Tell Mother to write to me as soon as she receives the money  I send it by Adams Express. Much love to all G.W.W. Direct Winchester Ky "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00410.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 25, 1863",0.164694682443,"  Brooklyn, N. Y.  April 25th/63 Dear Walt, Although I have little to write you about yet I thought I would just ""drop you a line"" as they say telling you that we all are in our usual style of liberty, health and pursuit of happiness. The latter of course under great difficulties as everything is so awful dear that you can hardly get enough to make a happy dinner on for less than 150cts but then we are doing the jolliest we can. How goes things with you. We dont hear from you as often as we used to.1 I hope you are not so engaged but that you can find time to write home? Do you visit the Hospitals as oftens as usual?2 I suppose so. I hope you are enabled to do as much good as formerly I have had quite a disappointment in a small way  There was a bill introduced in the Leg. to give the Brooklyn Sewer Com. the power to build a large sewer in Kent Av. raise the grade of the streets around there (Kent Av. from Flushing toward Williamsburg) &c quite a large job and we all surely thought it would go through as it is very much needed, and Mr Lane had promised me charge of it. Indeed I had commenced making plans, profiles &c when at the last moment the thing got squelched, but yet I dont know a[s] I am very sorry for we still expect to get the new main, that is to lay a new line of pipe from the Reservoir down to the city, and even if we dont do that why I shall have work enough to keep me along, doing anything and everything that turns up3 Andrew is about the same as when I last wrote you  no worse, and I think a little better.4 I do not see much of him as he comes to the house mostly when I am out. He visits Dr Ruggles5 now and then. The Dr thinks that he will gradually get over it. Mother had a little attack of her rheumatism yesterday and to-day and I am somewhat afraid that she will have more of it. She has been wonderful foolish in cleaning house as she calls it and has overworked herself.6 I dont think that she ought to do so, and so I tell her but she always answers that it's got to be done and that there is no one but her to do it, &c  Mary and Louisa7 have gone home  They went Thursday last. Mother worked quite hard while they were here which may help account for the rheumatism in a measure. Mat is as jolly and good as ever. I am glad that she has no work from New York as twould be too much for her. Although she often speaks of writing you, yet she takes it out in talking, but she always wants to be remembered to you  Hattie is just the same little Harem-scarem and joyous little thing that she ever is. If she can only get out in the open air 'tis all she wants. It appears to be perfect pleasure to her, she dont seem to care about seeing anybody or going to any place, only get out in the air, that is all. Twould amuse you to see her when I go home, she seems to be glad enough, and always looks at me with an expression ""well you've come and you are all right"" but otherwise with the utmost indifference, and when I tell her to come and see me she says ""what do I want to see you for"" or at other times ""What are you going to do with me."" You would be pleased to see how finely she is growing, seemingly perfect health  We have heard from George but twice since he left home. I wish we could do so oftener.  Have not had a letter from Han since I wrote you Affectionately Jeff."
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00138.html," Letter from Thomas P. Sawyer to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 26, 1863",0.164830681355,"   Dear Brother, As you have given me permission I have taken the liberty to address you as above, and I assure you I fully reciprocate your friendship as expressed in your letter and it will afford me great pleasure to meet you after the war will have terminated or sooner if circumstances will permit. I am much pleased that Lewy2 is so cheerful and happy, and I trust he will be successful in his hopes and desires and be prosperous and happy and enjoy life to a good old age. I am sorry very sorry that Hiram has not improved.3 I was in hopes that ere this he would be sufficiently recovered to go Home and I sincerly hope that it will not be long until he can do so. It is [my] sincere wish that Johny Makey4 will survive the operation and ultimately recover. I hope you will be more fortunate and procure a good berth, and be ever prosperous. We in the Army feel our reserves at Charleston and Vicksburg very deeply as yet we have not had a chance to strike a blow in our vicinity but as you say that time is near at hand and I hope we will be successful at any rate we will do out utmost and endeavor to give the Rebels the biggest thrashing they have yet received. Let the Government Officials in Washington mind their own biz. let Hooker5 alone and the Army of the Potomac will be triuimphant but as long as they will continue to interfere with our Gen[era]ls arrangements, dictate to him when he shall move, and when he shall halt, just so long will the Army of the Potomac be of little avail. It is composed of good material, and all ready for a forward movement. then let Hooker have the reins, and he will soon drive the Rebs to Richmond and far beyond it. Yes my dear Brother, You have my friendship as fully as you can desire, and I hope we will meet again.   Having nothing more of importance to communicate, I will conclude with my best wishes for your health and happiness and believe me to be  Yours sincerly,  Thos P. Sawyer  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00181.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Thomas P. Sawyer ,","Apr 26, 1863",0.164830681355," Dear comrade, I have not heard from you for some time, Lewy Brown has received two letters from you, & Walter3 in Ward E has received one three weeks ago. I wrote you a letter about a week ago, which I hope you have received. I was sorry you did not come up to my room to get the shirt & other things you promised to accept from me and take when you went away. I got them all ready, a good strong blue shirt, a pair of drawers & socks, and it would have been a satisfaction to me if you had accepted them. I should have often thought now Tom may be wearing around his body something from me, & that it might contribute to your comfort, down there in camp on picket, or sleeping in your tent. Lewy Brown and Hiram are about the same. I saw Lewy & sat with him last evening. I go to see him almost every evening. He sets up a little in the chair, during the middle of the day   his foot is doing pretty well. There is quite a time at Armory about Dr. Bliss4   some say he is under arrest for defrauding the government. There is a new surgeon in charge   I have not seen him. In Ward K there is a new surgeon, Dr. Rose.5 There is quite a change, with men & doctors, going and coming. Well, Tom, how did you stand the gay old rain storm of Thursday & Friday last?6 It rained here enough to wet hell itself, and swamp the fires. But yesterday & to-day here have been fine. The talk here previously was all about Hooker's advance   we expected a big fight, on the jump   but of course the storm has laid an injunction on that for some days. Yet I suppose Hooker must move soon, & that there will be fighting and lots of marches and skirmishes, &c before the summer is through. O my dear comrade & brother, I hope it will prove your good luck to come safe through all the engagements & marches of this war, & that we shall meet again, not to part. I hope this letter will find you in good health & spirits. Tom, I will not write a long yarn at present. I guess I have not made out much of a letter, anyhow at present, but I will let it go, whatever it is, hoping it may please you, coming from old wooly-neck, who loves you. You must let that make up for all deficiencies now and to come. Not a day passes, nor a night but I think of you. Now, my dearest comrade, I will bid you so long, & hope God will put it in your heart to bear toward me a little at least of the feeling I have about you. If it is only a quarter as much I shall be satisfied. Your faithful friend & brother, Walt    Tom, it is now about 9 o'clock, a fine moonlight night. I am going to close this up, and then scud out for a walk to the post office. Good by again, & God bless you, dear brother. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00122.html," Letter from Justus F. Boyd to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 27, 1863",0.164966680267,"   Friend Whitman I havent rec'd any letter from you yet and I begin to think you have forgoten to write but I will try once or twice more and if I dont get an answer I surely shall think something is up  I have written this makes three times to you and no ans yet. My health is some better than it was when I left the Hospital, but I am not well by a good deal and I dont know as I ever shall be able to work on a farm again  I am now in a store. I cant tell how long I shall stay but I think some of staying all summer  The place where I am in now is a pleasnt little village called Byron its a very pleasnt place. Well now how do you get along in Washington. I suppose you still go to the Hospital well that is all right but I havnt seen such a thing since I left Washington  Now how much do you think I could get a month down where you are or couldnt I get any thing  Please excuse Bad writing & poor spelling and write as soon as you get this I am not a going to write much this time for it may never get to you if I get an Ans to this I will write longer next time   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00767.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Apr 28, 1863",0.165102679179,"  Washington,  April 28th | 1863.  Dearest mother, A letter from Jeff came this morning1   mother, I was sorry to hear you had a return of your rheumatism   I do hope you will favor yourself more, it depends so much on that   & rheumatism is so obstinate, when it gets hold of one. Mother, you rec'd a letter from me, sent last Wednesday, 22d.2 of course, with a small quantity of shinplasters. Next time you or Jeff writes, I wish you would tell me whether the letters come pretty regularly, the next morning after I write them   this now ought to reach you Wednesday forenoon, April 29th. Mother, did a Mr. Howell call on you?   he was here last week to see about his boy, died a long while ago in hospital in Yorktown. He works in the Navy Yard   knows Andrew. You will see about him, (the boy,) in a letter I sent yesterday to the Eagle   it ought to appear to-day or to-morrow.3 Jeff, I wish you would take 10 cts I send in this letter & get me ten copies of the Eagle with it in   put in 5 more of my pictures, (the big ones in last edition ""Leaves""), & a couple of the photographs carte visites (the smaller ones,) & send me to the same direction as before. Jeff, I wish you would do up the parcel same as before, it came very well. I will send an Eagle to Han and George. The stamps & 10 cts. are for Jeff, for the papers, & postage. I have written to Han, & sent her George's last two letters from Kentucky, one I got last week from Mount Sterling. I write to George, & send him papers. Sam Beatty4 is here in Washington again, I saw him, & he said he would write to George. Mother, I have not got any new clothes yet, but shall very soon I hope. People are more rough and free & easy drest than your way. Then it is dusty or muddy most of the time here. Mother dear, I hope you have comfortable times   at least as comfortable as the law allows   I am so glad you are not going to have the trouble of moving this 1st of May. How are the Browns?5 Tell Will I should like to see him first rate   if he was here, attached to the suite of some big officer, or something of that kind, he would have a good time & do well. I see lots of young fellows not half as capable & trustworthy as he, coming & going, in Washington, in such positions. The big generals & head men, all through the armies, & provosts &c like to have a squad of such smart nimble young men around them. Give my respects to Mr. & Mrs. Brown. Tell Jeff I am going to write to Mr. Lane, either to-day or to-morrow.6 Jeff asks me if I go to hospitals as much as ever. If my letters home don't show it, you don't get 'em. I feel sorry sometimes after I have sent them, I have said so much about hospitals, & so mournful. O mother, the young man in Armory Square, Dennis Barrett,7 in the 169th N. Y., I mentioned before, is probably going to get up after all   he is like one saved from the grave. Saturday last I saw him & talked with him & gave him something to eat, & he was much better   it is the most unexpected recovery I have yet seen. Mother, I see Jeff says in the letter you don't hear from me very often   I will write oftener especially to Jeff. Dear brother, I hope you are getting along good & in good spirits. You must not mind the failure of the sewer bills, &c. &c.8 It don't seem to me it makes so much difference about worldly successes (beyond just enough to eat & drink, and shelter, in the moderatest limits) any more, since the last four months of my life especially, & that merely to live, & have one fair meal a day, is enough   but then you have a family, & that makes a difference. Matty, I send you my best love, dear sister   how I wish I could be with you one or two good days. Mat, do you remember the good time we had that awful stormy night we went to the opera, New York, & had the front seat, & heard the handsome-mouthed Guerrabella?9 And then the good oyster supper at Fulton Market   (""pewter them ales""   ) O, Mat, I hope & trust we shall have such times again. Tell Andrew he must remember what I wrote about the throat, &c. I am sure he will get all right before long, & recover his voice. Give him my love   & tell Mannahatta her Uncle Walt is living now among the sick soldiers. Jeff, look out for the Eagles, & send the portraits. Dearest mother, I must bid you & all for the present good bye. Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00227.html," Letter from Fred B. McReady to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 29, 1863",0.165238678091,"  Camp 51st N Y VolsWinchester KY April 29th 63  Friend Walt I answered your letter koughnsiquenlighly1 you owe me one, unless you think that sending a fellow some note paper would be sufficient answer. I had several thoughs then, one was that I made such a poor fish at it, that you wanted me to try over again and see if I could not do better and then I thought that you had had some milk in your coffee which had been so strong that you imagined you had said something. there is something I am certain of and that is, a peice of blank paper is not half as interseting as one with writing on it. I would have stood on my dig some time longer if George had not brought some religious remarks to bear, something about ""doing good for evil"" and when a fellowed pluged you in the snoot instead of hitting back give him another try at the other side, I thought I would take note paper as it would not take so many words to fill up  Feby 9th Struck camp. took the cars to acqua creek went aboard Schooner Mary E Hudson was taken in tow in company of two other schooners by the tug boat Louisiana and arrived at Fortress Monroe on the night of Feby 10th & anchored. Feb 11th Landed at Newport News & encamped "" 19 Received the common wedge tents "" 23. Had a new U.S. flag and two guidons presented to us by the City of New York through Col Sheppard for as the inscription on the staff said ""valor on the field,"" it was given in place of our old City flag which we had sent home it being too much riddled to carry. Feb 25. (th A.C. Received by Gels Dix & Smith March 5th Played a match game of Ball with Hawkin Zouaves in which they were victorious Score HZ, 34 runs 51st NYV, 33 runs. Mch 9th Farmer & I received a furlough for 10 days went home and spread ourselves Mch 14th Reg moved into the barracks "" 18th Grand ball given in honor of the Battle of Newbern, NC, on board of steamboat City of Hudson the officers of the Brigade Mch 24 Played return match with the Hawkins, we were beat again. Score HZ 21 runs 51st 10 runs. Mch 26, Left Newport News & went on board steamboat John Brooks. 2 Compys went to guard the baggage on board the propeller John Rice. Mch 27. Arrived in Baltimore landed and proceeded to the depoh N @ RR left about midnight Mch 28th Had coffee at the Mifflin (Cap Sims who was in command telegraphed for it) also at Altoona. Mch 29th Arrived at Pittsburg about 9 am had dinner in the Town Hall, gave the ladies 3 cheers changed cars to Pittsburg Ft. Wayne & Chicago RR had coffee at Cusline, arrived at Columbus on Mch 30th had coffee, rush after passing Loveleand Private A J Norris Compny H fell from the platform of a car. three cars passed over him cutting him in two (his body was brough up by the passenger train and buried in Cincinnati) arrived in Cincinnati at dark had supper at the Market   Ham. Beef. pigs feet. eggs pie. bread butter cheese apples coffee &c Mch 31st Crossed the Ohio on the ferry boat about 1 am to Covington Ky, slept in the cars, left about 4 A.M. in the cars, arrived at Paris in the morning of April 1st pitched tents we were told we would stay and protect the place, but the officers of the 29th Mass had no notion of being relieved they got up a petition which they got some of the citizens to sign asking Burnside to send our Regiment away as we were devils & he was just green enough to do it April 3rd Left about 8 A.M. marched towards Mount Sterling, had skirmishes deploued out on each side of the road ahead of the Brigade arrived at Mount Sterling about 6 P.M. (23 miles) and bivouacked. April 4th changed camp to the other side and about 1 1/2 miles from town, Apl 9 A scouting party was sent out about 10 P.M. to capture some rebs who it was said stopped at some houses just outside of our pickets, we went, we saw, and we came back, tried but no wiswer, if there were any rebs we could not find them Apl 13th Routed out about 11 P.M. told to get ready to get in light marching order Apl 14th Left about 2 A.M. 21st Mass was with us mached to Sharpsburg (12 miles) arrived about 6 am surrounded the place, captured some citizens, some took the oath (not the one OCK speaks of) others did not, so when we left at 4 PM we took them and some horses with us, arrived in camp about 9 P.M. Apl 15th The prionsers (7 in number) and the horses proved themselves to be Union so they left, so the only thing we made for our trouble was sore feet, and a breakfast Apl 1th Struck tents about 4 A.M. marched to Winchester (15 miles) arrived at 2 PM marched through and about 2 miles to the other side encamped (the 21st Mass was left to protect Mt Sterling.) Apl 18th was paid for the months of Nov, Dec Jan & Feb "" 30. Mustered for pay. Received by Genl Sturgis in the afternoon, then marched through the town George says he well but very buisy (doing nothing) lends his spies. Daniel Jenkins sends his. George will write soon if not sooner.  ""Vive Vale"" Fred B McReady  Frank Butler, Same Pooley, sends their respects. The chicken (Col Le Gendre) Cap Sims & Adj McKee have gone to Lexington to recruit refugees from Tenns & Kys but up to date have got none and I think they will be able to return to camp in the same condish. Write often while Hooker is getting and how he gets, George says you might write every day if not oftener in fact writeFred  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00123.html," Letter from John F. S. ( Fred ) Gray to Walt Whitman ,","May 1, 1863",0.165510675915," My very dear Friend, Finally I find time and quiet to write you   I beseech you be not angry at what may seem to you to be ""apostate sentimentalism"" & neglect! To say that in the past two months I have had no time to acknowledge the receipt of your very welcome letter would be stupid; but, on the other hand, to affirm that during this time I had thought it better, influenced, perhaps, by my invariable tendency to procrastinate, to postpone writing till I could do so quietly, & in a manner befitting my earnest affection for you & the memory of the ""good old times,"" would be emphatically the truth. Be appeased! Remember that since I left Genl. Smith I have been constantly on the ""go""; either attending Genl. Wool2 (with whom I now am) on his tours of inspection, or bothering my brain with the detestable clerical duties incidental to my position. I take for granted that you are mollified, & herewith proceed to talk unrestrainedly to you. The Spring has come, & I long to have you write me again   on reading this sentence you will undoubtedly ask yourself why the ""apostate sentimentalist"" should wish to see you because the Spring had come: answer: I don't know. Charley Chauncey, of whose illness you have heard, is said to be much better   I leave my card often, but never see him, owing to the fact that only a chosen few are allowed that priviledge, but friend Raymond is dead.3 During a march from New Orleans he was suddenly attacked by congestive-fever, & in less than 48 hours he had made his adieus to this world & gone roaming into the suppositive one. Curious that the ""Hater"" should be first one to go. Our little joyful party of a year ago is entirely broken up. Now & then I see Bloom & Fritsch   the others I rarely see. You ask me to tell you about myself   alas! it would be but a stupid catalogue of folly to bore you with. How long I shall remain with Genl. Wool I do not know; if the government see fit to give either Genl. Smith or Genl. Franklin4 an active command I shall in all probability enter the field again. I have just come from my Mother, who, together with my Father, desires to be kindly remembered to you. My mother says she has heard of your whereabouts & what you are doing from the news-papers5   furthermore she states with unusual vehemence that she thought you a good & noble man & that the Deity would be sure even. I state what my Mother said mainly as an illustration of what a great many others have remarked to me concerning you & your noble devotion to suffering man. As for myself I must say that I feel d   d proud of you. Don't forget to destroy this almost illegible & dirty letter? It is a shame to send it to you, but I fear if I commence another I shall be interrupted & not get through with it. I had a very different life from what I did last summer   no more beer-houses & disreputable ""cakes & ale"". Sometimes when I think of my poor little Clothilde & you I feel as if I were not as happy now as then. However, ""man must work & woman must weep"" I suppose! Everybody whom I meet who knew you formally asks after you with unaffected interest. Charley Russel6 was in town some weeks ago, he told me not to fail to send his warmest love to you. He is on Genl. Meade's7 staff as Medical Inspector Genl. of the 5th Corps d'armeé    a first rate position & one that he has earned by his industry & talents. If I remain in town this summer I hope you will come on & see me. I detest writing letters to a dear friend like you   its such a devilish slow & insufficient way of communicating your thoughts. The country looks charmingly now   the other day I took a walk in the central park with Perk.8; the park was so heavenly that it actually made me as sentimental & lachrymose as a school-boy   I'm damned if I wouldn't have given up all my hopes in the future to have had you & my little girl with me then. Don't fail to write me, will you, old Boy! Be Charitable & forgive! The Original Jacobo has just ordered me to see about some d   d fortification.   Good Bye old Boy!  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00411.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","May 2, 1863",0.165646674827,"  Brooklyn, N. Y. May 2nd 1863 Dear Walt, In your letter to Mother you say that you have written a letter to the Eagle and want me when it is publis[hed] to send you some copies.1 I have neglected writing you thinking every day that it would appear and that I would be able to advise you that I had sent them (Eagles) and the pictures as you wanted. I now begin to think that it will hardly be printed but still I will keep a lookout for it and if it does will send them to you at once. Do you wish me to send the pictures without the papers? Mr Lane2 received your letter on Thursday morning and sent you $5. the same day and to day he sent you $6 more. I should not wonder if we were able to drop you a few $ every now and then, right along  I hope so any way. Everything is going on finely at home. Mother is quite well and Mat is as usual well and hard at work. Sis is growing like a weed and as wild as a hawk. To day Mat happened to look out in front and found her trying by force of arms, to drive a little boy, bigger than she was however, off the front stoop. They say that she was wonderfull indignat at being stopped. She seems to remember you and is very anxious that I should always remember to write you that she has been a nice girl We do not hear much from George. I suppose that he is farther away from mail communication than he has been heretofore. In his last letter he seemed to be glad to get away from Va.3 and I dont blame him. Andrew, I think, is getting better, slowly, I dont think that he takes very good care of himself even yet. If he would I am sure that he would get better rapidly  We have not heard from Han since the letter that I sent you, I suppose she is about the same  Mother speaks of sending for her &c and then says she hardly knows what to do. Tis rather a puzzling question I confess. I hope however that she will come home herself before long. It certainly is a great relief not to be cursed with letters from Heyde every few days. I suppose, dear Walt that you will have more to do in the Hospitals than ever pretty soon. I hardly can see how you can stand seeing so much of the heart-breaking  I certainly could not do it. I am sure it would make me sick enough to die. Last Thursday I met Bill Hart.4 He is Major in the 88th N. Y. V. and had been hurt at Kelleys ford. He seemed very glad to see me and said had he known that you were in Washington he certainly should have seen you before this. I gave him your address and he will call on you when he goes through Washington on his return. He looks better than he did when he used to be around Brooklyn. Monday A. M.  Yesterday Andrew was at the house  he, I think, is somewhat better. Everybody else is getting along as usual, and all send their love. Write. Affectionately Jeff."
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.01008.html," Letter from James Redpath to Walt Whitman ,","May 5, 1863",0.166054671563," Friend Walter: I did not answer your last letter because I could not reply to the questions it put. I have heard since that Emerson tried to have something done about you, but failed. Believing that he would write to you, I didn't. There is a prejudice agst you here among the ""fine"" ladies & gentlemen of the transcendental School. It is believed that you are not ashamed of your reproductive organs, and, somehow, it wd seem to be the result of their logic   that eunuchs only are fit for nurses. If you are ready to qualify yourself for their sympathy & support, that you may not unnecessarily suffer thereform, is the sincere wish of your friend,  James Redpath  Did you see the paragraph I wrote in The Commomwealth about you ?2 If not, I'll send another copy.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00768.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","May 5, 1863",0.166054671563,"  Washington | Tuesday May 5th '63.  Dearest Mother, Your letter came safe, and was very welcome, & always will be   Mother, I am sorry about your rheumatism   If it still continues, I think it would be well for me to write a line to Mrs. Piercy,1 & get Jeff to stop with it, so that you could take the baths again, as I am sure they are very beneficial   Dear mother, you write me, or Jeff must in the next letter, how you are getting along, whether it is any better, or worse   I want to know. Mother, about George's fund in the bank, I hope by all means you can scratch along so as to leave $250 there   I am so anxious that our family should have a little ranch, even if it is the meanest kind, off somewhere that you can call your own, & that would do for Ed, &c.   it might be a real dependence, & comfort   and may-be for George as much as any one. I mean to come home one of these days, and get the acre or ½ acre somewhere out in some by-place on Long Island, & build it, you see if I dont. About Hannah,2 dear mother, I hardly know what advice to give you   from what I know at present, I cant tell what course to pursue. I want Han to come home, from the bottom of my heart. Then there are other thoughts & considerations that come up. Dear mother, I cannot advise, but shall acquiesce in any thing that is settled upon, & try to help. The condition of things here in the Hospitals is getting pretty bad   the wounded from the battles around Fredericksburgh are coming up in large numbers.3 It is very sad to see them. I have written to Mr. Lane, asking him to get his friends to forward me what they think proper   but somehow I feel delicate about sending such requests, after all.4 I have almost made up my mind to do what I can personally, & not seek assistance from others. Dear Mother, I have not received any letter from George. I write to him & send papers to Winchester. Mother, while I have been writing this, a very large number of southern prisoners, I should think 1000 at least, has past up Pennsylvania avenue, under a strong guard. I went out in the street, close to them, to look at them. Poor fellows, many of them mere lads   it brought the tears, they seemed our own flesh & blood too, some wounded, all miserable in clothing, all in dirt & tatters   many of them fine young men. Mother, I cannot tell you how I feel to see these prisoners marched [incomplete] "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00595.html," Letter from Will W. Wallace to Walt Whitman ,","May 7, 1863",0.166326669387," Dear Walt I received your letter this morning and will not give the plea you have given. I have very little time tis true, yet I endeavor by writing rapidly to have time to keep up my correspondence more particularly with those in Washington. I am better pleased with the city than when I last wrote. I have a Hospital of 350 patients No stewards to assist me, three women to look after and Jones Hotel to run. Have I not my hands full by the way you wish to know what Jones Hotel is. It is a fine house across the way from Hospt No 3, where the Surgn Steward and women stop it has a large white Board in front with the letters contrasting in black ""Jones Hotel"" I have the clerks from the different Head Quarters board with me so I am well posted in what is going on in different dpts. I would be pleased to see you here. I received a letter from Col Leasur of the 100th Pa and more familiarly Roundhead Regt2  this morning stating that the 9th Army Corps was under marching orders and moving to Murfreesboro via Nashville. I wish you would come and make your headquarters with me. You could find plenty of work in your line. There is a New paper started this week by the correspondant of Forneys Press. It is making business. Here is a field of fourtune for some of them who wish I am surprised at your frenchy leaving you in such a deplorable state, but you are not alone. I had to dismiss mine to save the reputation of the Hospital and your humble servant. Nothing new here. I have the famous Miss Chase3 here and she is invaluable in her assistance to me. I send my Photo and shall expect one of the Prince of Bohemia by return I will write in a few days. Come out here you will find it pleasant.   Your protegee  Will W Wallace  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00412.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","May 9, 1863",0.166598667211,"  Brooklyn, N. Y. May 9th 1863 Dear Walt Although I know Mr Lane1 intends to write you to-day and send you a little money yet I thought I would jot you a note. My main object is to ask you if you can possibly hear anything of Lane's nephew (or boy as he calls him) as he has always been with him and Lane loves him like a son)  He belongs to the 20th Conn. and was in the 12th Army Corps under Gen Birney2  The letter of his Company I forget but think it was K. Lane is quite cast down about him, mostly from not hearing from him at all. The boys name is ""Horace G. Tarr.""3 Dear Walt, if you should by any chance or inquiry come across him or any news from him wont you please write Lane for I feel real sorry to see him so cast down. I see by some of the papers that quite a number of the 20th Conn. are at Washington in hospital I feel thankful indeed that George did not have to go through the dangers of this battle although we know not what is in store for him where he is.4 I do so hope he will be spared to us and that he will come home without ever being injired. Everything is moving the same as usual at home  of course we all feel pretty well down-hearted at the news but then we try to look on it in the most favorable light. God only knows what will be the next. I had certainly made up my mind that we should meet with partial success certainly, but it seems otherwise5 I suppose you are overcrowded with work just now  I cannot see Walt how you can stand it. I am sure that I could never get used to all the scenes of pain and horror that you have to witness  Tis well though that you can do so, for I know that you are doing a great deal of good. I suppose you do not have much time to write home  We do not hear from you but seldom now. I suppose however that as long as we dont hear, everything is going as usual with you. We have not heard from either Han or George since I last wrote you  I am getting along first rate just now, make quite a little money and every thing goes well  Mother and Mat and Sis and all are well and send love. Write me Walt Affectionatley Jeff"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00769.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Moses Lane ,","May 11, 1863",0.166870665035," Dear friend,2 Your letters of the 6th & 7 have arrived, with timely contributions from D. L. Northrup, John H. Rhodes, Thos. Cotrel, Nicholas Wyckoff, & Thomas Sullivan,3 for my poor men here in hospital. With these, as with other funds, I aid all I can soldiers from all the states. Most heartily do I thank you, dear friend, for your kind exertions   & those gentlemen above named   it is a work of God's charity, never cases more deserving of aid, never more heart-rending cases, than these now coming up in one long bloody string from Chancellorsville and Fredericksburgh battles, six or seven hundred every day without intermission. We have already over 3000 arrived here in hospital from Hooker's late battles. I work somewhere among them every day or in the evening. It is not so exhausting as one might think   the endurance & spirit are supplied. My health, thank God, was never better   I feel strong & elastic   an obstinate cold & deafness some weeks, seems to be broken up at last. Yesterday I spent nearly all day at Armory Square Hospital. This forenoon I take an intermission, & go again at dusk. You there north must not be so disheartened about Hooker's return to this side of the Rappahannock and supposed failure.4 The blow struck at Lee & the rebel sway in Virginia, & generally at Richmond & Jeff Davis, by this short but tremendous little campaign, of 2d, 3d, 4th & 5th inst's, is in my judgment the heaviest and most staggering they have yet got from us, & has not only hit them nearer where they live than all Maclellan ever did, but all that has been levelled at Richmond during the war. I mean this deliberately. We have I know paid for it with thousands of dear noble lives, America's choicest blood, yet the late battles are not without something decisive to show for them. Hooker will resume operations forthwith   may be has resumed them. Do not be discouraged. I am not even here   here amid all this huge mess of traitors, loafers, hospitals, axe-grinders, & incompetencies & officials that goes by the name of Washington. I myself yet believe in Hooker & the A[rmy] of P[otomac]   yet say he is a good man. Jeff writes me about your boy Horace Tarr,5 20th Connecticut. I will endeavor to make immediate inquiry about him   there are some of the 20th Conn. here in hospital   will write you forthwith, if I get any information. I have written to Nicholas Wyckoff,6 to your care, a hospital &c. letter. Love & thanks to you, dear friend, & to those who are aiding my boys. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00413.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","May 12, 1863",0.167006663947,"  Brooklyn, N. Y. May 12th 1863 Dear Bro. Walt, Mr. Lane recd. your letter this morning1 and would have probably answered it to-day but has had to go out in the country (to Jamaica) to make some arrangements for a visit that the Common Council and Water Board intend to make over the works. In his behalf I return thanks for your kindness as regards Horace.2 Mr Lane however has heard from him  He was in the thickest of the fight but was not harmed although he had some pretty narrow escapes  He says that some of the rebs took pretty good aim at him Dear Walt, your letter has given me a great deal of pleasure, so it has Mr Lane in regard to Hooker and his movements.3 I am so glad to understand that he is going in again. Tis sure that he could not have been badly whipped or he could not have done that, And Lee as you say must have been badly hurt or he would never let Hooker come across the river without molestation  I wish you could send me letters oftener. I like to get your ideas of matters and also hear what the people down in Wash'tn think. Twas rather blue here for a few days, almost every one thought it was another bad defeat. We are all thriving as usual. Mother is about the same as ever, somewhat lame with the rheumatism but not much  the rest are all well. Andrew had a letter yesterday from Jim Cornwell,4 enclosing him $50 and telling him to come immediately to Suffolk,5 at the bottom was a transportation order from Frank Spinola.6 Cornwell said if he did not come to give the money to his (Cornwells) wife, but to come sure if possible. I think Andrew very foolish not to go, as Ruggles7 says he certainly will never get well of his throat here. Andrew was to come for me and we were going to see the Dr. to-day abt his going but he did not come and mother thinks that he has concluded not to go. I think it would be much better for him to go  I think it would be better for his health, dont you? They must intend to give him a pretty good show or they would not send ""surely come"" for him. We do not here from either Han or George do you? Hattie is the same as ever ever wanting to be out doors and wonders if Uncle Walt will never come and take her out on ""Ft. Greene.""8 She seems to remember you first rate and George too. What abt the pictures, shall I send them? The letter does not come out in the Eagle and probably will not but to make again sure I will call to-morrow and look over their file for some weeks back to see if I have possibly overlooked it. All send their love Affectionately Jeff"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00770.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","May 13, 1863",0.167142662859,"  Washington,  Wednesday forenoon, | May 13th 1863.  Dearest Mother, I am late with my letter this week   my poor, poor boys occupy my time very much   I go every day, & sometimes nights   I believe I mentioned a young man in Ward F, Armory Square, with a bad wound in the leg, very agonizing, had to have it propt up, & an attendant all the while dripping water on night & day   I was in hopes at one time he would get through with it, but a few days ago he took a sudden bad turn, & died about 3 o'clock the same afternoon   it was horrible   he was of good family (handsome, intelligent man, about 26, married) his name was John Elliott1 of Cumberland Valley, Bedford Co., Penn., belonged to 2d Pennsylvania Cavalry. I felt very bad about it   I have wrote to his father   have not rec'd any answer yet   no friend nor any of his folks was here & have not been here nor sent, probably didnt know of it at all. The surgeons put off amputating the leg, he was so exhausted, but at last it was imperatively necessary to amputate   mother, I am shocked to tell you, that the never came alive off the amputating table   he died under the operation   it was what I had dreaded & anticipated   poor young man, he suffered much, very very much, for many days & bore it so patiently   so it was a release to him   Mother, such things are awful   not a soul here he knew or cared about, except me   yet the surgeons & nurses were good to him   I think all was done for him that could be   there was no help but to take off the leg   he was under chloroform   they tried their best to bring him to   three long hours were spent, a strong smelling bottle held under his nostrils, with other means, three hours. Mother, how contemptible all the usual little worldly prides & vanities & striving after appearances, seems in the midst of such scenes as these   such tragedies of soul & body. To see such things & not be able to help them is awful   I feel almost ashamed of being so well & whole. Dear mother, I have not heard from George himself   but I got a letter from Fred McReady,2 a young Brooklyn man in 51st   he is intimate with George, said he was well & hearty   I got the letter about five days ago   I wrote to George four days since, directed to Winchester, Kentucky. I got a letter from a friend3 in Nashville, Tenn., yesterday, he told me the 9th Army Corps was ordered to move to Murfreesboro, Tenn. I don't know whether this is so or not. I send papers to George almost every day. So far, I think it was fortunate the 51st was moved west, & I hope it will prove to continue so. Mother, it is all a lottery, this war, no one knows what will come up next. Mother, I rec'd Jeff's letter of May 9th, it was welcome, as all Jeff's letters are, & all others from home. Jeff says you do not hear from me at home but seldom   Mother, I write once a week to you regular   but I will write soon to Jeff a good long letter   I have wanted to for some time, but have been much occupied. Dear brother, I wish you to say to Probasco & all the other young men on the Works, I send them my love & best thanks   never any thing came more acceptable than the little fund they forwarded me, the last week, through Mr. Lane4   Our wounded, from Hooker's battles, are worse wounded & more of them, than any battle of the war & indeed any I may say of modern times (we have lost from 15,000 to 20,000)   besides, the weather has been very hot here, very bad for new wounds. Yet as Jeff writes so downhearted I must tell him the rebellion has lost worse & more than we have   the more I find out about it, the more I think they, the confederates, have rec'd an irreparable harm & loss in Virginia. I should not be surprised to see them (either voluntarily or by force) leaving Virginia, before many weeks. I don't see how on earth they can stay there   I think Hooker is already reaching after them again   I myself do not give up Hooker yet    Dear mother, I should like to hear from Han, poor Han   I send my best love to Sister Mat & all. Good bye, dearest mother. Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00139.html," Letter from Justus F. Boyd to Walt Whitman ,","May 14, 1863",0.167278661771,   Mr. Whitman Dear Sir Here I am seated at the desk pen in hand once more writing a few lines to you. I guess I dont write so you can read it or else I direct wrong or else you do. there is something the matter anyway for I have written this makes four letters and I have sent word to you once by Fred Euler  But I havent re'cd a line from you since I got home  I am going to send this one and if I dont receive an Ans in about a week I shall write one more & direct to Brooklin N.Y. but I shall look for one this time sure. I am in a store yet I dont know how long I shall stay I havnt made any bargain   yet how long I shall stay. I may not stay more than a week and I may stay all summer I am not able to work on the farm yet and I dont know as I shall ever be able  I am still takeing medison  I am getting about sick of living on medison all the time but I suppose I must if I live at all but enough of this  I would like to take a walk down Pennsylvania Avenue this pleasant afternoon  we would have a good time if there was any such thing and I guess there is I would like to be back in Washington now   (I dont mean in the Hospital) though I got all of that I want for much as six months but there is no use wishing I suppos for it wont do me any good to wish I shall have to close for there has some customers just come in  Now please write as soon as you receive this In[stan]t 
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00885.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Nicholas Wyckoff or Daniel L. Northrup ,","May 14, 1863",0.167278661771," I adapt myself to each case, & to [indecipherable]2   some need to be humored, some are rather out of their head   some merely want me to sit down [near] them, & hold them by the hand   one will want a letter written to mother or father, (yesterd[ay] I wrote over a dozen letters)   some like to have me feed them (wounded perhaps in shoulder or wrist) perhaps a few bits of my peaches   some want a cooling drink, (I have some very nice syrups from raspberries &c.)   others want writing paper, envelopes, a stamp, &c.   I could fill a sheet with one day's items   I often go, just at dark, sometimes stay nearly all night   I like to go just before supper, carrying a pot or jar of something good & go around with a spoon distributing a little here and there. Yet after all this succoring of the stomach (which is of course most welcome & indispensable) I should say that I believe my profoundest help to these sick & dying men is probably the soothing invigoration I steadily bear in mind, to infuse in them through affection, cheering love, & the like, between them & me. It has saved more than one life. There is a strange influence here. I have formed attachments here in hospital, that I shall keep to my dying day, & they will the same, without doubt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/mhs.00004.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Thomas Jefferson Whitman ,","May 15, 1863",0.167414660683,"  Near Lancaster Ky2 May 15th 1863 Dear Brother Jeff, I believe I last wrote home from Lowell, but a fellow has to change about so often in this country, its hard work to remember where he was two days ago. After staying at Lowell a couple of days we were ordered to pack up and move again, so we started back on the same road we went out on, and encamped about a mile from this place. After stopping there two days, our Regt was ordered down to this Villiage to do Provost duty in the Town. Lancaster is a small one horse specimen of a southren Villiage, about 32 miles from Lexington, in the central part of the state and 16 or 18 miles from any railroad communication. The country about here is splendid. the fruit trees are just now in full bloom  the weather is fine,  we are liveing first rate  the men are all in good health, and we are haveing a good time generaly. Our Regt is now encamped on the outskirts of the Town in a nice shady spot all alone by ourselvs, the rest of our Brigade and the First Brigade of our Division being encamped about a mile out of Town. We have everything comfortable here, but I think I already see signs of moveing, and it wont be many days before we will have to pull up stakes and be off. We have been very much disapointed in the result of the fighting on the Rappahannock,3  we had such favorable news from there at first, and Hooker managed things so nicely in crossing the river, and getting a good position, that I about made up my mind, that notwithstanding the bad luck, that has always attended the movements of the Potomac Army, it was about to do a big thing and I was almost sorry I wasent there to have a hand in. The account of the takeing of Richmond too was firmly believed here, as Gen Sturgis4recd. a Tel Dix5 (said to be from Gen Burnside6) saying that Gen Dix had advanced by way of Petersburg and that Richmond was certainly in our posession,  A few hours after the dispatch was recd, there came another from the same source confirming the first, and although I had not believed the news at first, I finaly began to think there must be some truth in it. And then to find out that we had not only not, taken Richmond, but that Hooker had been obliged to recross the river, was a terrible let down I can tell you. Still I have faith in Hooker and believe he will yet do something big, and takeing into account the many disadvantges he had to contend with, (the storm and the devilish cowardice of the Dutchman of the 11th Corps7) I dont know as any other man could have done better than he. One thing I think is plain, in crossing the river and getting in the rear of Lee's army in the manner he did, Hooker showed fine generalship and altogather, I think more of him than I did before the fight. Well Jeff how are you all getting along at home. I dont hear from you very often, not as often as I should like to. I hope Mother and Mattie and Sis and all the rest of you are well. Walt says that Mother is still troubled sometimes, with the Rheumatism,  does she take sulphor baths  Walt said he was going to make arrangements for her to do so. Why not have a bath rigged up in her room,  it would not cost much, and would save the journey down to Perceys. Andrew, Walt says is working in the Navy Yard, so I suppose he must be better.8 I hear from Walt quite often,  he seems to be getting along very well. Have you heard from Hannah lately. when you get a letter from her, send it on so that I can see it. There has been nothing done in regard to consolidating our Regt. yet. I think likely they will wait untill the draft goes into opperation and then fill us up with conscripts. Direct your letters Department of Ohio and no matter where the Regt may be the letters will come all right. Good bye Jeff  Much love to Mother, Mattie, Hattie, and all G. W. Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00771.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","May 19, 1863",0.167958656331,"  Washington,  Tuesday | forenoon, May 19th | 1863.  Dearest mother, I received a letter from Heyde this morning, one of the usual sort, about as interesting as a dose of salts. Says Han has not been able to stand erect for the past five months   the doctor told her lately that she might possibly recover in one year if she was careful   then says he thinks, & he don't think, & has taken a little place, & Han has a girl to wait on her, &c. &c. All amounts to nothing more than we knew before, & only serves to make one feel almost heart-sick about Han, & the awful snarl in which we are all fixed about it all, & what to do. I wrote to Han yesterday, (before I received this letter of Heyde's), I wrote a short letter of my own, & sent her George's letter to you, (I cut out what was said about the money, as I did not wish Heyde to see it.)1 I also sent George a letter yesterday   have not got any letter myself from Georgy, but have sent him quite a good many & papers   Mother, what a tramp the 51st has had   they only need now to go to California, & they will finish the job complete    O mother, how welcome the shirts were   I was putting off, & putting off, to get some new ones, I could not find any one to do them as I wear them, & it would have cost such a price   & so my old ones had got to be, when they come back from the wash I had to laugh, they were a lot of rags, held together with starch   I have a very nice old black aunty for a washwoman, but she bears down pretty hard I guess when she irons them, & they showed something like the poor old city of Fredericksburgh does, since Burnside bombarded it   Well, mother, when the bundle came, I was so glad   & the coats too, worn as they are, they come in very handy   & the cake, dear mother, I am almost like the boy that put it under his pillow   & woke up in the night & eat some   I carried a good chunk to a young man wounded, I think a good deal of, & it did him so much good   it is dry, but all the better, as he eat it with tea & it relished   I eat a piece with him & drinked some tea, out of his cup, as I sat by the side of his cot   Mother, I have neglected I think what I ought to have told you two or three weeks ago, that is that I had to discard my old clothes, somewhat because they were too thick & more still because they were worse gone in than any I ever yet wore I think in my life, especially the trowsers   wearing my big boots had caused the inside of the legs just above the knee to wear two beautiful round holes right through cloth & partly through the lining, producing a novel effect, which was not necessary, as I produce a sufficient sensation without   then they were desperately faded   I have a nice plain suit, of a dark wine color, looks very well, & feels good, single breasted sack coat with breast pockets &c. & vest & pants same as what I always wear, (pants pretty full,) so upon the whole all looks unusually good for me, my hat is very good yet, boots ditto, have a new necktie, nice shirts, you can imagine I cut quite a swell   I have not trimmed my beard since I left home, but it is not grown much longer, only perhaps a little bushier   I keep about as stout as ever, & the past five or six days I have felt wonderful well, indeed never did I feel better   about ten or twelve days ago, we had a short spell of very warm weather here, but for about six days now it has been delightful, just warm enough. I generally go to the hospitals from 12 to 4   & then again from 6 to 9   some days I only go either in the middle of the day, or evening, not both   & then when I feel somewhat opprest, I skip over a day, or make perhaps a light call only, as I have received several cautions from the doctors, who tell me that one must beware of continuing too steady & long in the air & influences of the hospitals   I find the caution a wise one. Mother, you or Jeff must write me what Andrew does about going to North Carolina2   I should think it might have a beneficial effect upon his throat. I wrote Jeff quite a long letter Sunday3   Jeff must write to me whenever he can, I like dearly to have them, & whenever you feel like it you too, dear mother   tell sis her uncle Walt will come back one of these days from the sick soldiers & take her out on Fort Greene again   Mother, I received a letter yesterday from John Elliott's4 father, in Bedford co[unty,] Pennsylvania, (the young man I told you about, who died under the operation)   it was very sad, it was the first he knew about it   I don't know whether I told you of Dennis Barnett,5 pneumonia, three weeks since, had got well enough to be sent home    Dearest mother, I hope you will take things as easy as possible & try to keep a good heart   Matty, my dear sister, I have to inform you that I was treated to a splendid dish of ice cream Sunday night, I wished you was with me to have another   I send you my love, dear sister. Mother, I hope by all means it will be possible to keep the money whole, to get some ranch next spring, if not before, I mean to come home & build it.6 Good bye for the present, dear mother. Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00772.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","May 26, 1863",0.168910648715,"  Washington,  Tuesday forenoon, | May 26th 1863.  Dear Mother, I got a long letter from George, dated near Lancaster, Kentucky, May 15th1   he seems to be well & in good spirits, says he gets some letters from me & papers too   At the time he wrote, the 51st was doing provost duty at Lancaster, but would not probably remain so very long   seem to be moving toward southeast Kentucky   had a good camp, & good times generally. LeGendre2 is colonel   Gen. Ferrero3 has left the service   Col. Potter4 (now Brig. Gen.) is in Cincinnati   Capt. Sims5 &c are all well   George describes Kentucky as a very fine country   says the people are about half & half, secesh & union. This is the longest letter I have yet rec'd from George. Did he write you one about the same time? Mother, I have not rec'd any word from home in over a week   the last letter I had from Mr. Lane was about 12 days ago, sending me $10 for the soldiers, (5 from Mr. Kirkwood6 & 5 from Conklin Brush.)7 Mother dear, I should like to hear from Martha, I wish Jeff would write me about it8   has Andrew gone? & how is your wrist & arm, mother   We have had some very hot weather here   I don't know what I should have done without the thin grey coat you sent   you don't know how good it does, & looks too   I wore it three days, & carried a fan & an umbrella, (quite a Japanee)   most every body here carries an umbrella, on acc't of the sun   yesterday & to-day however have been quite cool, east wind   Mother, the shirts were a real godsend, they do first rate, I like the fancy Marseilles collar & wristbands    Mother, how are you getting along   I suppose just the same as ever   I suppose Jess & Ed are just the same as ever   when you write, you tell me all about every thing, & the Browns,9 & the neighborhood generally. Mother, is George's trunk home & of no use, there? I wish I had it here, as I must have a trunk   but do not wish you to send it, until I send you word   I suppose my letter never appeared in the Eagle,10 well I shall send them no more, as I think likely they hate to put in any thing which may celebrate me a little, even though it is just the thing they want for their paper & readers. They altered the other letter on that account, very meanly. I shall probably have letters in the N. Y. Times & perhaps other papers in about a week11   Mother, I have been pretty active in hospitals for the past two weeks, somewhere every day or night   I have written you so much about cases &c I will not write you any more, on that subject this time   O the sad, sad things I see, the noble young men with legs & arms taken off   the deaths   the sick weakness, sicker than death, that some endure, after amputations   (there is a great difference, some make little of it, others lie after it for days, just flickering alive, & O so deathly weak & sick)   I go this afternoon to Campbell Hospital, out a couple of miles. Mother, I should like to have Jeff send me 20 of the large sized portraits & as many of the standing figure, do them up flat. I think every day about Martha. Mother, have you heard any further about Han? Good bye for the present, dearest mother. Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00884.html," Letter from Moses Lane to Walt Whitman ,","May 27, 1863",0.169046647627,"  Engineer's Office, Brooklyn Water Works, 355 Fulton Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. May 27th 1863 Walt Whitman My Dear Friend  Enclosed I send you ten dollars. This is my contribution $5. per month, and is for the months of April and May. I Recd a letter from you yesterday. I think you have Recd all the money I have sent thus far. I intended to write you several days since. I have the promise of more money which I will send you soon.  Very truly yours Moses Lane  P.S. Your letter to Messrs Wyckoff &c. was Recd and delivered to Mr. Wyckoff.2  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00414.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","May 27, 1863",0.169046647627,"  Brooklyn, N. Y. May 27th 1863 Dear Walt, Mother recived your letter of last Tuesday, this morning1  We were glad to hear from you  indeed I began to think that the hospitals had got the better of you, as we had not heard in so long. I mailed you a letter from Mr Lane2 to-day containing some money. I suppose Mr Lane would have written you before but he met with quite a serious accident last Sunday  His little boy, abt 5 years old, fell from the balcony down in the area on the stone steps and hurt his head pretty bad. The Dr's hardly know how bad he is hurt, but think he will recover. Dr Ruggles3 who was called in says that it is hardly possible to say how it will go with him for abt 10 days  It is a great blow to Mr Lane as he was his favorite child. I am in hopes that it is not so serious as we at first supposed. With us every thing is the same as usual. Mother is quite well  Mattie is well yet but how long she will continue so is a question,4 she is getting along first rate. she has a young girl to help her do the house work and is in the best of spirits  Hattie is getting along finely growing well and has perfect health. She has grown wonderfully since you left. I think you would hardly know her. A few days since she had quite a bad fall, or rather it might have been one but she luckily escaped without doing herself much harm  She fell in the yard and hit her forehead on the little curb stones that are set on edge along the sides of the walks. She cut quite a gash in her forehead but it has entirely healed up and indeed hardly leaves any mark now We had a letter from George written abt the time that yours was5  I answered it at once. When you write to George tell him that I write him quite often although he does not seem to get them. Andrew thinks he will go down to Newbern the last of this week. He will go down with Jim Cornwell.6 Andrew is going to take charge of the building of some fortifications I believe. Andrew's health is not good although I think he is better than he was and I think he would get well easy enough if he took better care of himself and did not drink so much. His family are all well. We or rather Mother had a letter from Heyde the other day reading thus  ""Your letter received. Han is better to-day than she has been for months   Charlie""  That was all there was in it. Rather short and sweet wasn't it. We are having what might be called first-class weather here to-day, athoug[h] we have had that same cold, damp North east wind that you spoke of  Everything in the country looks well and I guess that we shall have large crops unless something unlikely occurs. We are anxiously expecting to hear from Vicksburg and begin to fear that it is going to turn out like the Victories of the Army of the Potomac although Grant aint in the habit of doing such things either.7 I hope and pray that he may be successful  I cannot agree with you Walt in relation to the President. I think that he is not a man for the times, not big enough  He dont seem to have even force enough to stop bickerings between his own Cabinet and Generals nor force enough to do as he thinks best.8 We begin also to fear that Hooker did not win a very great victory either or he would hardly lie idle so long during the best part of the year.9 No, A. L.10 is not the man and I hardly know if we have one that is equal to the thing. Write me  you have almost forgotten me. All send their love, Affectionately Jeff."
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00182.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Thomas P. Sawyer ,","May 27, 1863",0.169046647627,"  Washington,  May 27, 1863.  Dear brother, I sit down to rattle off in haste a few lines to you. I do not know what is the reason I have been favored with nary a word from you, to let me know whether you are alive & well   that is, if you are so, which I pray to God you are. My thoughts are with you often enough, & I make reckoning when we shall one day be together again   yet how useless it is to make calculations for the future. Still a fellow will. Tom, I wrote you one letter April 21st, & then another April 26th. The first one must have gone all right, as a letter was received by me April 28th,1 (very pretty written)   but I have not heard whether you got my second letter. I enclosed in it an envelope with my address on, in hopes you would write to me. Well, dear brother, the great battle between Hooker & Lee came off, & what a battle it was   without any decisive results again, though at the cost of so many brave men's lives & limbs   it seems too dreadful, that such bloody contests, without settling any thing, should go on. The hospitals here are filled with the wounded, I think the worst cases & the plentiest of any fighting yet. Was you in the fight? I have made inquiries of two of the 11th Mass. here in hospital, but they could not tell me about you for certain. Lewy Brown2 seems to be getting along pretty well. I hope he will be up & around before long   he is a good boy, & has my love, & when he is discharged, I should feel it a comfort to share with Lewy whatever I might have   & indeed if I ever have the means, he shall never want. Dr. Bliss3 was removed from Armory & put for a few days in the Old Capitol prison   there is now some talk however of his going back to Armory. There is no particular change in my affairs here   I just about manage to pay my way, with newspaper correspondence &c. Tom, I believe I shall have to lay pipe for some office, clerkship, or something    We had awful hot weather here three or four days ago   O how the grease run off of me   I invested in an umbrella & fan   it must have been gay4 down there about Falmouth   didn't you want some ice cream about last Sunday? My dearest comrade, I cannot, though I attempt it, put in a letter the feelings of my heart   I suppose my letters sound strange & unusual to you as it is, but as I am only expressing the truth in them, I do not trouble myself on that account. As I intimated before, I do not expect you to return for me the same degree of love I have for you. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00342.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","May 29, 1863",0.169318645451,"  Heusonville Ky.   May 29th/63 Dear Mother My last letter home, was written from Lancaster and dated somewhere about the 16th or 18th of May. Since then we have been on the move again, as you see by the heading of this. We left Lancaster on the morning of the 23d,2marched about 11 miles and bivouaced at a place called Crab Orchard and stopped untill the morning of the 25th when we came on about 10 miles further and bivouaced near the Villiage of Stamford. Next morning we started on again and after a march of 10 miles more we arrived and pitched our camp at this place. We have a first rate camping ground, in a grove just outside this town, and are takeing things very comfortable. Our Regt. is the only troops here, the rest of our Brigade3 being at Stamford. Of course we dont know how long we shall stay here, or which way we will move next,  We do picket duty on the roads, about the country here, and our chief business is, to look out for rebel Cavelry raids, as they have been in the habit of dashing through these small country towns, stealing horses and Cattle and everything else they wanted. We had quite an excitement the first night after our arrival here. We put up our tents, on the afternoon of our arrival, and I was promising myself a good nights sleep (as we were all pretty tired after our march, and the work of pitching camp) but about 9 O clock at night we were ordered to strike tents immediately, so we had to turn out and take down and load tents, pack trunks, and get ready for a move, which we did at short notice. As soon as the things were all loaded, I enquired around to try and find out what the fuss was all about, and when I did find out I felt mad enough I can tell you. It seems that somebody had passed our pickets, who said he was carrying dipatches, to somebody, who was stationed somewhere, and that the dispatches were from General Carter,4and that the rebs had crossed the Cumberland River, and were in strong force, at a place called Liberty about 10 miles from here, and were comeing on this way. As soon as I heard the yarn I said it was a devilish foolish hoax, as I was satisfied that the enemy could never get as far in the State, as Liberty, without our hearing of it. and I dident like the idea of loseing my nights sleep for nothing. The wagon train started off towards the rest of our Brigade, and we fell in and marched about ½ a mile, and halted and stayed in the road all night. Next morning we came back here, and encamped again. Mother I have not heard from you in quite a long time,  I had a letter from Walt a few days ago,  he said that all at home, was going on the same as usual. Andrew he thought would go to Newbern with Cornell5  Mary I hear has been down and paid you a visit,  Walt says, probaly, Mary will go on to Burlington for Hannah, and bring her home. Mother, how are you getting along,  does the rheumatism bother you much now. Mattie, and Sis, Walt says are first rate,  Jess, and Ed, I suppose can take their rations regular. Jeff wrote to me three or four weeks ago,  he says that as long as I dont hear from home I may know that all is right. That wont do Jeff,  its a pretty good way to get off, but I dont see it. The news from Grant, down at Vicksburg is very encouraging,6  I only hope it wont turn out like the news of the capture of Richmond. If it should turn out, that Vicksburg is certain to fall into our hands in this campaign it will be a heavy blow to the rebs. I have just got Jeffs letter of the 22d. Mother I am very sory to hear that you are again troubled with rheumatism,  I hope you wont attempt to work untill you get well,  how about the vapor baths  do you take them now, but I hope you are better by this time. Andrew to  Jeff says  is quite bad  I hope he will take good care of himself, and soon get well,  All the rest I am glad to hear are getting along first rate and are in good health, I hope,  as Han (according to Heydes letter) has commenced to get well she will soon be able to come home,  Take good care of yourself dear Mother, and let me hear from you often, Much love to Mattie, and Sis,and all the rest,Geo. W. Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00124.html," Letter from John J. Barker to Walt Whitman ,","Jun 5, 1863",0.170270637835, Dear friend I have the present opertunity to drop you a few lines to let you now that I am well and have got safe to the regment and I have bin to see my famley they are well wee are all m[o]unted an wee have got the pras of the finest regment in these pats My Capten Skaggs2 is ded brother william3 is very low i dont think that he will live but 3 or foar days  wee think we will cros the Cumbrlen river in a few days wee have got plontloon & boats in a larg foars in an a bout here most of them is mounted intfery an cavelry wee think wee will make a gard on nxvill [Knoxville?] excuse bad riten an short leter yours rspectivly Direct your leter to Co E 2 tennossee regment Conal Carter4 Commanding 
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00773.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jun 9, 1863",0.170814633483,"  Washington,  Tuesday morning | June 9th 1863.  Dearest mother, Jeff's letter came yesterday & was very welcome, as I wanted to hear about you all   I wrote to George yesterday & sent Jeff's letter enclosed. It looks from some accounts as though the 9th Army corps might be going down into East Tennessee, (Cumberland Gap or perhaps bound for Knoxville.) It is an important region, & has many southern unionists    the staunchest union man I have ever met is a young southerner in the 2d Tennessee (union reg't)   he was ten months in southern prisons, came up from Richmond paroled about ten weeks ago, & has been in hospital here sick until lately   he suffered every thing but death, he is the one they hung up by the heels, head downwards, & indeed worse than death, but stuck to his convictions like a hero   John Barker,1 a real manly fellow, I saw much of him & heard much of that country that can be relied on. He is now gone home to his reg't. Mother, I am feeling very well these days   my head that was stopt up so & hard of hearing seems to be all right. I only hope you have had similar good fortune with your rheumatism, & that it will continue so   I wish I could come in for a couple of days & see you   if I should succeed in getting a transportation ticket that would take me to New York & back, I should be tempted to come home for two or three days, as I want some MSS & books, & the trunk, &c. But I will see   Mother, your letter week before last was very good   whenever you feel like it, you write me, dear mother, & tell me every thing about the neighborhood, & all the items of our family. And sister Mat, how is she getting along   I believe I will have to write a letter especially to her & Sis, one of these times. It is awful dry weather here, no rain of any consequence for five or six weeks   we have strawberries good & plenty, 15 cents a quart, with the hulls on   I go down to market sometimes of a morning & buy two or three quarts, for the folks I take my meals with   Mother, do you know I have not paid, as you may say, a cent of board since I have been in Washington, that is for meals   four or five times I have made a rush to leave the folks & find a moderate priced boarding house, but every time they have made such a time about it, that I have kept on   it is Mr. & Mrs. O'Connor, (he is the author of ""Harrington"")2   he has a $1600 office in the Treasury, & she is a first rate woman, a Massachusetts girl   they keep house in a moderate way   they have one little girl, (lost a fine boy about a year ago)   they have two rooms in the same house where I hire my room, & I take breakfast (½ past 8) & dinner (½ past 4) with them, as they will have it so   that's the way it has gone on now over five months, & as I say they won't listen to my leaving   but I shall do so, I think   I can never forget their kindness & real friendship & it appears as though they would continue just the same, if it were for all our lives. But I have insisted on going to market, (it is pleasant in the cool of the morning,) and getting the things, at my own expense, two or three times a week lately   I pay for the room I occupy now $7 a month   the landlord is a mixture of booby, miser & hog, his name is Gwin3   the landlady is a good woman, Washington raised   they are quite rich   he is Irish of the worst kind   has had a good office for ten years until Lincoln came in   They have bought another house, smaller, to live in, & are going to move (were to have moved 1st of June)   they had an auction of the house we live in yesterday, but nobody came to buy, so it was ridiculous   we had a red flag out, & a nigger walked up & down ringing a big bell, which is the fashion here for auctions. Well, mother, the war still goes on, & every thing as much in a fog as ever   & the battles as bloody, & the wounded & sick getting worse & plentier all the time. I see a letter in the Tribune from Lexington, Ky., June 5th, headed ""the 9th Army Corps departing for Vicksburgh""4   but I cannot exactly make it out, on reading the letter carefully   I don't see any thing in the letter about the 9th corps moving for Vicksburgh   at any rate I think the 2d division is more likely to be needed in Kentucky (or as I said, in Eastern Tennessee) as the secesh are expected to make trouble there   But one can hardly tell   the only thing is to resign onesself to events as they occur   it is a sad & dreary time, for so many thousands of parents & relatives, not knowing what will occur next   Mother, I told you I think last week that I had wrote to Han, & enclosed George's last letter to me   I wrote a week ago last Sunday   I wonder if she got the letter   About the pictures, I should like Jeff to send them, as soon as convenient   might send 20 of the big head, 10 or 12 of the standing figure, & 3 of the carte visite. I am writing this in Major Hapgood's office   it is bright & pleasant, only the dust here in Washington is a great nuisance. Mother, your shirts do first rate. I am wearing them   the one I have on today suits me better than any I have ever yet had. I have not worn the thin coat the last week or so, as it has not been very hot lately. Mother, I think something of commencing a series of lectures & readings &c.5 through different cities of the north, to supply myself with funds for my Hospital & Soldiers visits   as I do not like to be beholden to the medium of others   I need a pretty large supply of money &c. to do the good I would like to   & the work grows upon me, & fascinates me   it is the most affecting thing you ever see, the lots of poor sick & wounded young men that depend so much, in one ward or another, upon my petting or soothing or feeding, sitting by them & feeding them their dinner or supper, some are quite helpless   some wounded in both arms   or giving some trifle (for a novelty or a change, it isn't for the value of it,) or stopping a little while with them   nobody will do but me   So, mother, I feel as though I would like to inaugurate a plan by which I could raise means on my own hook, & perhaps quite plenty too. Best love to you, dearest mother, & to sister Mat & Jeff. Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00415.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Jun 13, 1863",0.171358629131,"  Brooklyn, N. Y. June 13 63 Dear brother Walt, I received your letter yesterday morning.1 I am extremely glad to hear that your health continues so good. Walt I have thought considerable of the idea that you speak of, that of your giving lectures2  I fear that you would not meet with that success that you deserve. Mr Lane3 and I talked about the matter and both came to the conclusion that it would be much better if you could be appointed dispensing agent, or something of that kind, for some of the numerous aid societies,4 and he said that he would go and see Storrs5 and some other of the big guns of those societies in this city and see if it could not be done. What do you think about it. Do you think it could be accomplished.? Everything is going along well with us at home. Mother is not troubled hardly any with her rheumatism and I am in hopes she will get the best of it entirely. Mattie is well and in first-rate spirits, she often speaks of you and says she would like very much to see you. Hattie is growing as nicely as it is possibly for a child to grow. You would love dearly to take a stroll with her now I know  Andrew has not yet gone to Newbern6 but thinks that they will get off the fore part of the coming week. Jess and Ed are just the same as ever. We were all much pleased with the idea that you would come home to make us a visit, I do so hope that you can carry it out.7 do try Walt, for me  all want to see you very much I am glad you wrote Mother about the way in which you board for I have often and often thought how you was doing in that respect and I sometimes thought I ought to do something in the matter, precisely what or how I never could tell. I am real glad my dear Walt that you are among such good people. I hope it will be in the power of some of our family to return their Kindness some day. I'm sure twould be done with a heartfelt gratitude  Tis pleasant, too, to think that there are still people of that kind left.8 You, of course, still continue your hospital ""practice"" as you might call it. I wish we were able to send you more money than we do but almost everyone you meet is a contributor to some of the aid societies and that is the way in which they are (thinking) doing good Well, Walt, you and I cannot agree in regard to ""Uncle Abe""9  I cannot think that he is the man for the place or he would have surrounded himself with men that could do something. He lends himself to the speculators, in all the ways that it can be done. He says ""yes"" to the last man or ""No"" as that man wants him to. Everything he does reminds me of an old woman. I hope that the country will last long enough for this damned war to fall through   It seems nothing but an immense bubble, only of a desperate character We have not heard from Han lately  I wrote you that we had had a letter from George. I fear for George now  I am afraid that they have sent the 51st to Vicksburgh.10 I do hope that George may escape but I fear not  It seems as if he had been so lucky that it could not continue till the end. If you can learn anything of the 51st write me will you  All send their love, good night dear brother Yours affectionately Jeff."
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00125.html," Letter from John J. Barker to Walt Whitman ,","Jun 19, 1863",0.172174622603, Dear friend i resevd your leter this morning an was very glad to here from you  i am driven a team for the regment i have every faver i ask. i go whare i pleas and when i pleas Capten sais he will do all in his power to get mee in as a recruten officer if i get that i will be just whare i want to bee  Carter is the Col he is all the man that hoald the same command that they first held thar has bin a change in all the officers in the regment  lutennent Col melten2 is in command of the regment  Col Carter3 is often brgider genral  genral Carter is ctin mager general wee think they will be promoted Capten Skaggs4 did may the 19 at stan-foard by A Psenter that was ordley sargent of Co E is now Captan he is Jest like a privet and as study as a Jug JC sebrig5 is fist lutenent B B Jones6 is a lutenent brother william7 is ordly 1 hve got sound an well an as stout as ever i have bin at home twice since i roat to you i cudent stay long for the rebels pickets was in site just acrous the river an our pickets on this side i wish you could be with mee i have moar fun than a litel i am singel all a long the road from mill springs to stanfoard whare i make a trip ever 7 or 8 days   i go in two miles of hoam when i go to millsprings our boys are all in good sirrets and egger to fight since rot to you wee went acrous the river an had skermis of about 4 ours an driv the bac seven miles wee returned in good order our los was 6 kild an 30 wound Capten Carrens morrtly   I but is geten beter lutenen will Coff wounded 5 companys of our regmet is at millsprings an 5 here they will return today they 70 prisners yesterd give my big respc to all inquiren friends tell mis isral an mis low howdy for me ma god bles you good by   
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00774.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jun 22, 1863",0.172582619339,"  Washington |  Monday morning June 22 '63  Dear mother, Jeff's letter came informing me of the birth of the little girl,1 & that Matty was feeling pretty well, so far. I hope it will continue   Dear sister, I should much like to come home & see you & the little one, I am sure from Jeff's description it is a noble babe, & as to its being a girl it is all the better. (I am not sure but the Whitman breed gives better women than men.) Well, mother, we are generally anticipating a lively time here or in the neighborhood,2 as it is probable Lee is feeling about to strike a blow on Washington, or perhaps right into it   & as Lee is no fool, it is perhaps possible he may give us a good shake   he is not very far off   yesterday was a fight to the southwest of here all day, we heard the cannons nearly all day   the wounded are arriving in small squads every day, mostly cavalry, a great many Ohio men   they send off to-day from the Washington hospitals a great many to New York, Philadelphia, &c. all who are able, to make room, which looks ominous   indeed it is pretty certain that there is to be some severe fighting, may be a great battle again, the pending week   I am getting so callous that it hardly arouses me at all   I fancy I should take it very quietly if I found myself in the midst of a desperate conflict here in Washington. Mother, I have nothing particular to write about   I see & hear nothing but new & old cases of my poor suffering boys in Hospitals, & I dare say you have had enough of such things   I have not missed a day at Hospital I think for more than three weeks   I get more & more wound round   poor young men   there are some cases that would literally sink & give up, if I did not pass a portion of the time with them   I have quite made up my mind about the lecturing &c project   I have no doubt it will succeed well enough, the way I shall put it in operation   you know, mother, it is to raise funds to enable me to continue my Hospital ministrations, on a more free handed scale   As to the Sanitary Commissions & the like, I am sick of them all, & would not accept any of their berths   you ought to see the way the men as they lie helpless in bed turn away their faces from the sight of these Agents, Chaplains &c. (hirelings as Elias Hicks3 would call them   they seem to me always a set of foxes & wolves)   they get well paid, & are always incompetent & disagreeable   As I told you before the only good fellows I have met are the Christian Commissioners   they go everywhere & receive no pay4    Dear, dear mother, I want much to see you & dear Matty too, I send you both [my] best love, & Jeff too   the pictures came   I have not heard from George nor Han. I write a day earlier than usual. Walt    We here think Vicksburgh is ours5   the probability is that it has capitulated   & there has been no general assault   can't tell yet whether the 51st went there   we are having very fine weather here to-day   rained last night. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00183.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jun 30, 1863",0.173670610635,"  Washington  June 30 1863  Dearest Mother, Your letter with Han's I have sent to George, though whether it will find him or not I cannot tell, as I think the 51st must be away down at Vicksburgh   I have not had a word from George yet   Mother, I have had quite an attack of sore throat & distress in my head for some days past, up to last night, but to-day I feel nearly all right again. I have been about the city same as usual, nearly   to the Hospitals, &c, I mean   I am told that I hover too much over the beds of the hospitals, with fever & putrid wounds, &c. One soldier, brought here about fifteen days ago, very low with typhoid fever, Livingston Brooks,1 Co B 17th Penn Cavalry, I have particularly stuck to, as I found him in what appeared to be a dying condition, from negligence, & a horrible journey of about forty miles, bad roads & fast driving   & then after he got here, as he is a simple country boy, very shy & silent, & made no complaint, they neglected him   I found him something like I found John Holmes2 last winter   I called the doctor's attention to him, shook up the nurses, had him bathed in spirits, gave him lumps of ice, & ice to his head, he had a fearful bursting pain in his head, & his body was like fire   he was very quiet, a very sensible boy, old fashioned   he did not want to die, & I had to lie to him without stint, for he thought I knew everything, & I always put in of course that what I told him was exactly the truth, & that if he got really dangerous I would tell him & not conceal it. The rule is to remove bad fever patients out from the main wards to a tent by themselves, & the doctor told me he would have to be removed. I broke it gently to him, but the poor boy got it immediately in his head that he was marked with death, & was to be removed on that account   it had a great effect upon him, & although I told the truth this time it did not have as good a result as my former fibs   I persuaded the doctor to let him remain   for three days he lay just about an even chance, go or stay, with a little leaning toward the first   But, mother, to make a long story short, he is now out of any immediate danger   he has been perfectly rational throughout   begins to taste a little food, (for a week he eat nothing, I had to compel him to take a quarter of an orange, now & then)   & I will say, whether any one calls it pride or not, that if he does get up & around again, it's me that saved his life. Mother, as I have said in former letters, you can have no idea how these sick & dying youngsters cling to a fellow, & how fascinating it is, with all its hospital surroundings of sadness & scenes of repulsion & death. In this same hospital, Armory Square, where this cavalry boy is, I have about fifteen or twenty particular cases I see much too, some of them as much as him   there are two from East Brooklyn, George Monk,3 Co A 78th N Y, & Stephen Redgate,4 (his mother is a widow in E[ast] B[rooklyn], I have written her,) both are pretty badly wounded   both are youngsters under 19   O mother, there seems to me as I go through these rows of cots, as if it was too bad to accept these children, to subject them to such premature experiences   I devote myself much to Armory Square Hospital because it contains by far the worst cases, most repulsive wounds, has the most suffering & most need of consolation   I go every day without fail, & often at night   sometimes stay very late   no one interferes with me, guards, doctors, nurses, nor any one   I am let to take my own course. Well, mother, I suppose you folks think we are in a somewhat dubious position here in Washington, with Lee in strong force almost between us & you northerners5   Well it does look ticklish, if the rebs cut the connection, then there will be fun   The reb cavalry come quite near us, dash in & steal wagon trains, &c   It would be funny if they should come some night to the President's country house, (soldier's home,) where he goes out to sleep every night   it is in the same direction as their saucy raid last Sunday   [Mr. Lincoln passes here (14th st) every evening on his way out   I noticed him last evening about ½ past 6, he was in his barouche, two horses, guarded by about thirty cavalry. The barouche comes first under a slow trot, driven by one man in the box, no servant or footman beside   the cavalry all follow closely after with a lieutenant at their head   I had a good view of the President last evening   he looks more careworn even than usual   his face with deep cut lines, seams, & his complexion gray, through very dark skin, a curious looking man, very sad   I said to a lady who was looking with me, ""Who can see that man without losing all wish to be sharp upon him personally? Who can say he has not a good soul?"" The lady assented, although she is almost vindictive on the course of the administration, (thinks it wants nerve &c., the usual complaint).6 The equipage is rather shabby, horses indeed almost what my friends the Broadway drivers would call old plugs. The President dresses in plain black clothes, cylinder hat   he was alone yesterday   As he came up, he first drove over to the house of the Sec[retary] of War, on K st about 300 feet from here, sat in his carriage while Stanton came out & had a 15 minutes interview with him (I can see from my window)   & then wheeled around, & slowly trotted around the corner & up Fourteenth st., the cavalry after him   I really think it would be safer for him just now to stop at the White House, but I expect he is too proud to abandon the former custom   ] Then about an hour after, we had a large cavalry regiment pass, with blankets, arms, &c, on the war march over the same track   the reg't was very full, over a thousand, indeed thirteen or fourteen hundred   it was an old reg't, veterans, old fighters, young as they were   they were preceded by a fine mounted band of sixteen, (about ten bugles, the rest cymbals & drums)   I tell you, mother, it made every thing ring   made my heart leap, they played with a will   then the accompaniment   the sabres rattled on a thousand men's sides   they had pistols, their heels spurred   handsome American young men, (I make no acc't of any other)   rude uniforms, well worn, but good cattle, prancing   all good riders, full of the devil, nobody shaved, all very sunburnt. The regimental officers (splendidly mounted, but just as roughly drest as the men) came immediately after the band, then company after company, with each its officers at its head   the tramping of so many horses (there is a good hard turnpike)   then a long train of men with led horses, mounted negroes, & a long long string of baggage wagons, each with four horses   & then a strong rear guard   I tell you it had the look of real war   noble looking fellows   a man looks & feels so proud on a good horse, & armed   They are off toward the region of Lee's (supposed) rendezvous, toward the Susquehannah, for the great anticipated battle   Alas, how many of these healthy handsome rollicking young men will lie cold in death, before the apples ripe in the orchards7    Mother, it is curious & stirring here, in some respects   smaller or larger bodies of troops are moving continually   many just well men are turned out of the hospitals   I am where I see a good deal of them   There are getting to be many black troops   there is one very good reg't here black as tar   they go armed, have the regular uniform   they submit to no nonsense   others are constantly forming   it is getting to be a common sight   they press them. [Incomplete] "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00140.html," Letter from Will W. Wallace to Walt Whitman ,","Jul 1, 1863",0.173806609547,"   Dear Walt I wrote to you some time since and have received no reply. Have you shuffled of this mortal coil and now roaming in the spirit-land? If so rapp and convince me of spiritualism. I have been unwell for some time back and the surgeons tell me liken unto die but I could not see it in that light  So deferred taking a red cedar box on this occasion. I am on the improve and will continue to do so until I am ""Richard himself again"" I have hoped to see you out in this dept now that the Ninth Army Corps has moved in this direction. Have you given over following the fortunes of the wandering Corps. I recieved a letter from Memphis some time since stating that they were on boats bound for Vicksburg Well Walt, I am ambitious and write consulting you. I see many Inspectors in the Army, some as to cleanliness and discipline of Hospitals others as to the ventilation etc etc I have met a number whom I consider inqualified for the position from the fact that they are not acquainted with Hospital life. My ambition points to this branch for myself I feel qualified for an inspector of Hospitals and I think can produce testimonials and certificates to that effect from officers of high standing in this Dept and in the Ninth Army Corps. Can you bring any influence to bear on this matter in the City of Washington. You will confer quite a favor by replying in regard to this question. Give my kind regard to Amos [Herbert]2 and others of Campbell Hospital. The news in this Dept is meagre. Genl Rosencrans3 is ""marching on"" Rumor to night reports the capture of Tallahomie [Tullahoma, Tennessee] with 18000 prisoners. I do not credit the report myself. I know there will be a fight ere long as the Hospl have orders to ship the wounded of the last battle to Louisville and make room for others. The Army of the Potomac ""Oh my"" what has to come of it I hope to hear of brilliant achievements in that direction.   Write soon and favor your friend  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00416.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Jul 7, 1863",0.174622603019,"  Brooklyn, N. Y. July 7th 1863 Dear Walt Enclosed please find $10 thus contributed  $5  from Jas. P. Kirkwood1 $1  ""   John D Martin2 $1  ""   Chas Botsford3   and $3 from self.  We are awfully pleased and excited at the war news. Feel as if the man4 had been appointed that was thinking less of political affairs than of licking the rebs. We are just getting news of the surrender of Vicksburgh. Hope to God that it is true. Bully for Meade!5 He has not only licked the rebs but the peace party headed by McClellan.6 Hope that he will not let them off but will poke it into them  How do you get along? I suppose you hardly have time to write me. I sent you a letter containing $15 last week7  did you get it? Nothing new at home  I did not have any ""time"" on the 4th so I send you this money that I might have spent. do the little sums that we send you enable you to do any good. Dear brother I am in a tremendious hurry, and you must excuse my letter. Mother sent you a letter a day or two since. Mattie and the babies8 are first-rate. Mother quite well. rest all right. Will write you again in a few days affectionately Jeff"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00775.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jul 7, 1863",0.174622603019,"  Tuesday afternoon.1  Mother, it seems to be certain that Meade2 has gained the day, & that the battles there in Pennsylvania have been about as terrible as any in the war   O what a sight must have been presented by the field of action   I think the killed & wounded there on both sides were as many as eighteen or twenty thousand   in one place, four or five acres, there were a thousand dead, at daybreak on Saturday morning   Mother, one's heart grows sick of war, after all, when you see what it really is   every once in a while I feel so horrified & disgusted   it seems to me like a great slaughter-house & the men mutually butchering each other   then I feel how impossible it appears, again, to retire from this contest, until we have carried our points   (it is cruel to be so tossed from pillar to post in one's judgment). Washington is a pleasant place in some respects   it has the finest trees, & plenty of them every where, on the streets, & grounds. The Capitol grounds, though small, have the finest cultivated trees I ever see   there is a great variety, & not one but is in perfect condition   After I finish this letter I am going out there for an hour's recreation   The great sights of Washington are the public buildings, the wide streets, the public grounds, the trees, the Smithsonian Institute & grounds   I go to the latter occasionally   the Institute is an old fogy concern, but the grounds are fine3   Sometimes I go up to Georgetown, about two & a half miles up the Potomac, an old town   just opposite it in the river is an island, where the niggers have their first Washington reg't encamped   they make a good show, are often seen in the streets of Washington in squads   since they have begun to carry arms, the secesh here & in Georgetown (about 3/5ths) are not insulting to them as formerly. One of the things here always on the go, is long trains of army wagons   sometimes they will stream along all day, it almost seems as if there was nothing else but army wagons & ambulances   they have great camps here in every direction, of army wagons, teamsters, ambulance camps, &c. Some of them are permanent, & have small hospitals   I go to them, (as no one else goes, ladies would not venture)   I sometimes have the luck to give some of the drivers a great deal of comfort & help. Indeed, mother, there are camps here of every thing   I went once or twice to the Contraband Camp,4 to the Hospital, &c. but I could not bring myself to go again   when I meet black men or boys among my own hospitals, I use them kindly, give them something, &c.   I believe I told you that I do the same to the wounded rebels, too   but as there is a limit to one's sinews & endurance & sympathies, &c. I have got in the way after going lightly as it were all through the wards of a hospital, & trying to give a word of cheer, if nothing else, to every one, then confining my special attentions to the few where the investment seems to tell best, & who want it most   Mother, I have real pride in telling you that I have the consciousness of saving quite a little number of lives by saving them from giving up & being a good deal with them   the men say it is so, & the doctors say it is so   & I will candidly confess I can see it is true, though I say it of myself   I know you will like to hear it, mother, so I tell you    I am finishing this in Major Hapgood's office, about 1 o'clock   it is pretty warm, but has not cleared off yet   the trees look so well from where I am, & the Potomac   it is a noble river   I see it several miles, & Arlington heights   Mother, I see some of the 47th Brooklyn every day or two   the reg't is on the Heights   back of Arlington House, a fine camp ground   O, Matty, I have just thought of you   dear sister, how are you getting along? Jeff, I will write you truly   Good bye for the present, dearest mother, & all    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00417.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Jul 8, 1863",0.174758601931,"  [Brooklyn, N. Y.] July 8th 1863 Dear Walt, Mr Lane1 is again very anxious about his boy, his name is Horace G. Tarr,2 and is Sergeant Major of the 20th Reg. of Connecticut Vol. If by chance you should hear anything of him will you please write. His Reg. belonged to the 12th army Corps, and I think were in the hottest of the fight. I sent you a letter last week with $14 in it and another yesterday with $10.3 Did you get them both? We are all well at home. The rejoicing in New York is sincere and almost universal and yet a few, (and yet only a few when compared with the immense city) who try to find some reason why Lee should have been whipped. Copperheads are getting out of circulation being laid up for a future contingency. Hope to hear from you soon. Dont forget me. Yours truly Jeff"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00126.html," Letter from Lewis K. Brown to Walt Whitman ,","Jul 10, 1863",0.175030599755," My Dear Freind Walter. It is with mutch pleasure that I take my pen in hand to inform you that I am well and that my leg is mending verry fast  I left Washington on the 2nd on the 6 1/2 O clock train but It was the rong train and I had to get of at Haver de gras and stay all night on the Boat or els go on to Wilmington and so I got of and stayed on the boat and as good luck would have it I met 3 men on the boat that I knowed and they maid me verry comfortable that night and then I left the next morning and got home in the evening and I gave Mother a verry agreeable Supprise I was verry tired the next day but I feel well now. I think that I will soon get well hear for I have everything that I want we have a splendid garden and we have a good many cherries in fact every thing, the nice grain fields around the house and every thing looks so well. I have had a good many of my young friends to see me. I have got your picture and I am a going to have it fraimed the first time I get whear I can have it don. I expect to go on a visit up to my GranFathers in about 4 weeks and I think that I will have a nice time up thear. I only wish that you wer hear I am sure that you would enjoy it for it is so nice or it appears so to me [w]ho has been pennd up in the Hospital for 10 months. My Father and Mother are well and send their respects to you for Mother says whoeve[r] did me a faivor or was a friend to me was one to her and you have bin a friend in nead and that is a friend indead. I expect that you still visit the Hospital if so give my respects to the boys  I have nothing more to write at present so I will have to close hoping verry soon to hear from you so good by and God bless you from your affectionet friend   Lewis K Brown  care of James McPauley P.S. pleas excues this bad writing as well as spelling  I have just herd of the fall of Vicksburg and I am g[l]ad of it and Simple Mead has drove the rebbels out of Pennsylvania.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00776.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jul 10, 1863",0.175030599755,"  Washington, |  July 10 1863.  Dear mother, I suppose you rec'd a letter from me last Wednesday as I sent you one Tuesday, (7th)   dear mother, I was glad enough to hear from George, by that letter from Snyder's Bluffs, June 28th   I had felt a little fear on acc't of some of those storming parties Grant sent against Vicksburgh the middle of June & up to the 20th   but this letter dispels all anxiety   I have written to George many times, but it seems he has not got them   Mother, I shall write immediately to him again   I think he will get the letter I sent last Sunday, as I directed it to Vicksburgh   I told him all the news from home. Mother, I shall write to Han & inclose George's letter   I am real glad to hear from Mat & the little one, all so favorable   We are having pleasant weather here still   I go to Campbell Hospital this afternoon   I still keep going, mother   the wounded are doing rather badly I am sorry to say, there are frequent deaths. The weather, I suppose, which has been peculiarly bad for wounds, so wet & warm, (though not disagreeable outdoors)    Mother, you must write as often as you can, & Jeff too   you must not get worried about the ups & downs of the war   I don't know any course but to resign onesself to events   if one can only bring one's mind to it   Good bye once more for the present, dearest mother, Mat & the dear little ones. Walt    Mother, do you ever hear from Mary    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00777.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jul 15, 1863",0.175710594315,"  Washington |  Wednesday forenoon July 15 | 1863  Dear mother, So the mob has risen at last in New York1   I have been expecting it, but as the day for the draft had arrived & every thing was so quiet, I supposed all might go on smoothly   but it seems the passions of the people were only sleeping, & have burst forth with terrible fury, & they have destroyed life & property, the enrolment buildings &c as we hear   the accounts we get are a good deal in a muddle, but it seems bad enough   the feeling here is savage & hot as fire against New York, (the mob   ""copperhead mob"" the papers here call it,) & I hear nothing in all directions but threats of ordering up the gunboats, cannonading the city, shooting down the mob, hanging them in a body, &c &c   meantime I remain silent, partly amused, partly scornful, or occasionally put a dry remark, which only adds fuel to the flame   I do not feel it in my heart to abuse the poor people, or call for rope or bullets for them, but that is all the talk here, even in the hospitals    The acc'ts from N Y this morning are that the gov't has ordered the draft to be suspended there   I hope it is true, for I find that the deeper they go in with the draft, the more trouble it is likely to make   I have changed my opinions & feelings on the subject   we are in the midst of strange & terrible times   one is pulled a dozen different ways in his mind, & hardly knows what to think or do   Mother, I have not much fear that the troubles in New York will affect any of our family, still I feel somewhat uneasy   about Jeff, if any one, as he is more around   I have had it much on my mind what could be done, if it should so happen that Jeff should be drafted   of course he could not go, without its being the downfall almost of our whole family, as you may say, Mat & his young ones, & a sad blow to you too, mother, & to all   I didn't see any other way than to try to raise the $300, mostly by borrowing if possible of Mr Lane   mother, I have no doubt I shall make a few hundred dollars by the lectures I shall certainly commence soon, (for my hospital missionary purposes & my own, for that purpose) & I could lend that am't to Jeff to pay it back   May be the draft will not come off after all   I should say it was very doubtful if they can carry it out in N Y & Brooklyn   & besides it is only one chance out of several, to be drawn if it does   I dont wonder dear brother Jeff feels the effect it would have on domestic affairs. I think it is right to feel so, full as strongly as a man can. I do hope all will go well, & without such an additional trouble falling upon us, but as it can be met with money, I hope Jeff & Mat & all of you, dear mother, will not worry any more about it   I wrote to Jeff a few lines last Sunday, I suppose he got2   Mother, I don't know whether you have had a kind of gloomy week the past week, but somehow I feel as if you all had, but I hope it has passed over   How is dear sister Mat, & how is Miss Mannahatta & little black head   I sometimes feel as if I must come home & see you all, I want to very much    My hospital life still continues the same   I was in Armory all day yesterday & day & night before   they have the men wounded in the railroad accident at Laurel station (bet[ween] here & Baltimore) about 30 soldiers, some of them horribly injured at 3 o'clock a m last Saturday by collision   poor, poor, poor men   I go again this afternoon & night   I see so much of butcher sights, so much sickness & suffering I must get away a while I believe for self preservation   I have felt quite well though the past week   we have had rain continually   Mother, I have not heard from George since, have you? I shall write Han to-day & send George's letter   if you or Jeff has not written this week I hope Jeff will write on receiving this. Good bye for present, dearest mother, & Jeff & Mat. Walt Mother, the army is to be paid off two months more, right away. Of course George will get two months more pay. Dear mother, I hope you will keep untouched & put in bank every cent you can. I want us to have a ranch somewhere by or before next spring. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00418.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Jul 19, 1863",0.176254589963,"  Brooklyn, N. Y. Sunday [July] 19th /63 Dear brother Walt, We have passed through a wonderful week for our New York. A week that I think will eventually be productive of great good to our country, but had at a fearful cost. From my own personal observations I think that the newspapers would give one the most perverted kind of an idea of the riot. The big type, the general ""skeery"" look of the articles, was something that did not make its appearance on the public face. I guess the only wonderfully frightened men were Opdike and Seymour, if we perhaps except the Copperhead dem.'s that incited the rioters on and then deserted them.2 Opdike though was awfully frightened. In the flashy, sensation style the papers were all far from the truth, ahead, but when it comes to the killed, they are fa[r]ther from the truth, behind. Undoubtedly we shall never know the full number but I have it from the very best authority   an eye witness of most of the fights, that there are now more than 400 rioters that have paid their lives for their plunder  The papers are not allowed to publish this3  I suppose it is much better not to let it be known, but the lesson was fearful and thorough to these men. Yesterday I saw them taking coffins out of the shanties on 2nd Av. piling them on carts and driving right to the cemetery  I understand they have been doing this ever since Monday night. The police covered themselves with glory. They certainly made a splendid fight. They deserve great credit. God only knows where the city of New York would have been had we had Wood's police.4 They did well also in Brooklyn. The scoundrels thought to commence operations in Brooklyn, and did set fire to a couple of grain elevators, but the thing has gone no further. I think that rioting in these parts has received its quietus mostly from that Reg of Michigan boys that the War Dept. were kind enough to send us. I hear that they made fearful havoc with the irish ranks. Twas better so   they did not have that ""citizen feeling"" that our militia would have had. The only feeling I have is that I fear that they did not kill enough of 'em Walt. I'm perfectly rabid on an Irishman  I hate them worse than I thought I could hate anything. Their conduct for the past week has made me do it. The papers say that the draft is to go on in a day or two in New York & Brooklyn  this is right, I think, and will be a victory over a certain portion of the rebel army. I want, if possible to make a suggestion to this man Fry or whoever has char[g]e of this thing, of a manner in which, I think, the draft can be enforced in these larger cities without endangering riots. My idea is this, to make a certain portion of the city, say certain wards that make a district, not too large, and make the draft, carry the thing out complete, get the men in the field and every thing done before drafting in any other part of the same city. The advantages, I think, would be these, you could get along with a much smaller police (military) force as their would be no tendency to mob except in the one district, and when (and this I think would be the great point.) you got all through, the men in the field, the remainder of this whole district would be on the side of the draft and would help enforce it in the next, so that in a short time a majority of the city would want it enforced in the parts where it had not yet been done. The same should be done in Brooklyn  Being the first thing of the kind almost that has ever happened in this country I think a little policy would not come amiss. Another thing I think bad is the publishing of the list of names of the drafted men. This should not be done  I have reasons to suppose that had this not been done in New York they would not have had this organized mob headed by a drafted democratic Alderman5 and a lot of drafted irishman. Would it be possible for you to do anything in this matter. I mean suggest these ideas to those having the matter in charge. It strikes me Walt that if they could be carried out twould save a great deal of innocent blood  I go in for enforcing the draft at all hasards, and that too without giving in the least to the mob, but if a little politician thing of this kind would help, I think it ought to be done. Won't you try to do something about the matter. Of course all that can be done would be to bring it to the notice of the right parties. Twould defeat the entire thing by giving it publicity. My theory is that before the people found out the thing drafting would be over, and like the fellow that had the tooth out when he had taken laughing gas they would think it a good joke Yesterdays Herald stated that the 9th Corps were sent in pursuit of Johnson. To-days Times says that they have arrived back in Kentucky. Tis hard to say which is right, perhaps both   more likely neither.6   We want to hear from George much.   Heard from Han 'tother day. She was getting better. heard through Heyde.   Abt. the $300. I'm a little afraid that I shant be able to raise it through Mr Lane as he has been a little unfortunate lately, but still I keep a bold front7  I lately got a position where I am getting $90 per month. (through Mr Lane, Tis on the Water Works)  This will be permanent (as long as Mr Lane is here, perhaps for years.) and with such a certain prospect of paying it back in a few months, I think that George would lend me the money. I, by sailing very close, think I could pay him in five months. Dont you think he would be willing? Walt will you write me at once  I want to hear from you, often. All well at home, first-rate. Hope you will come home soon. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00343.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jul 23, 1863",0.176798585611,"  Camp of 51st Regt N.Y. Vols.Near Milldale Miss.   July 23d/63 Dear Mother I take the first oppertunity I have had in some time, to let you know that I am well and hearty. I fear Mother that you have been somewhat worried about not hearing from me in so long, but we have been so situated that there was no chance to send letters away, even if we had a chance to write them. I got a letter from Walt, a few days ago, dated July 5th,  he tells me you have another Sissy2 at your house,  I only hope she is as smart and bright as Sissy No. One. We returned to camp this morning after about as hard a campaign of 19 days as I want to see. We are now back in the same camp we occupied before the fall of Vicksburg,  this is the position where we expected to whip Johnson,3 if he had attempted to come to the relief of Pemberton,4  We are between the Yazoo and Black rivers and about 7 miles directly in the rear of Vicksburg. Our whole corps were encamped around here, before the surrender of Vicksburg, and we had dug miles of rifle pitts, and would have had a big thing on Johnson if we could have got him to come here and give us a fight. Vicksburg you reccolect surrendered on the morning of July 4th, and on the afternoon of the same day, we started off to find Johnson, as it was certain he would not come here to us. After a march of about 10 miles, our advance came up to the enemys pickets, who were posted on the opposite side of the Big Black river, (a deep creek about 100 feet wide)  as soon as we came in sight the rebel pickets skeedadled, and we had to stop and wait, (nearly two days) untill a bridge was built, before we could cross. As soon as the bridge was ready we pushed on after the rebs, the dust laying in the road like flour, 4 or 5 inches thick, and the weather terrible hot,  quite a number of the men fell down in the ranks, from the effects of the sun, and there was considerable suffering from the scarscity of water and we were forced to drink, from any little pond that could be found by the way no matter how bad the water was. Grub to was mighty scarce, and green corn was the chief article of food. The enemy did not pretend to make a stand, untill they got behind their entrenchments at Jackson,  this City you know is the Capitol of the state and is built on the bank of the Pearl river,  their earthworks started from the river above the town and ran along the outskirts untill they struck the river again just below the city, makeing a line of about 3 miles in length. The enemy were supposed to be from 25 to 30,000 strong and on the afternoon of July Tenth we drove their skirmishers, inside of their entrenchments, and we threw forward a heavy line of skirmishers, reaching nearly the whole length of the enemys line, and within easy rifle range of the enemys works. Each Brigade had a certain part of the line, and the regts, releived each other every 24 hours  that is, the ones that were up to the front one day, were moved back a short distance, the next, and held in reserve, but had to be ready, at any moment to fall in and sometimes when we heard heavy fireing, we had to fall in two or three times during the night. It seemed very curious fighting to me, and very different from what we had been used to. There was no general engagement but during the day, and sometimes during the night, quite a brisk fire was kept by sharpshooters on each side,  Each party kept themselvs concealed as much as possible, the enemy behind their earthworks, and our side behind trees, and by laying flat on the ground, and the moment anyone showed themselvs there was two or three rifles pointed at them. I expected Gen. Sherman (who I believe had command on our side) intended to skirmish with them, and keep them buisy on this side of the river, while someone crossed the river, and made an attack on the rear, which of course would have cutt off their retreat, but for some probably good reason (that I know nothing about) nothing of the kind was attempted, as far as I can hear. The skirmish was kept up untill about daylight on the morning of the 17th when a white flag was run up, by some citazens on one of the rebel works and we soon found that the whole rebel force had skedaddled during the night, and we went in and occupied the place. Our Brigade5 was the first toops inside the town, and the 51st was the second Regt.6 We found the place very much damaged by our Artillery, and nearly deserted by the inhabitants, what few citazens we found had dug holes or burrows in the ground and there they had staid while the fighting was going on. The loss on our side, has been very light indeed and our regt. only had one man wounded,  we took three or four hundred prisoners, and quite a large number of rifles and considerable ammunition fell into our hands. (Soon after we entered the town the western troops began to come in, and they ransacked and plundered the town completely. The western armies burn and destroy every thing they come across and the same number of men, marching through the country, will do three times the damage of the army of the Potomac. Sometimes on the march, I have known them to break and destroy, the most costly furniture such as Pianos and Sofas, and I have seen the roads strewn with the most splendid bound books, that would be taken from the libraries, carried a little distance and thrown away.)7 The planters had generaly left their houses, (when they found the yanks were comeing,) leaving darkies in charge, and the troops would often burn the houses, and the darkies would run away, and follow the sogers. We traveled through thousands of acres of corn, and sometimes 4 or 5,000 men with two or three hundred horses and mules would bivouac in a corn field. When we left here we only took the clothes we had on  leaving our trunks here in camp, and two or three times I have went to a pond and took off my clothes and washed them myself, and two or three times I have been completely soaked with the rain, and laid down at night on the ground, (after drinking a cup of coffe and eating a cracker) and slept soundly all night, and got up at 4 O clock next morning feeling first rate, and I am now as well as ever I was in my life. We dont know how long we will stay here, or which way we will move next, but the general impression is, that we will start back for Kentucky in the course of a few days, so I think very likely the next letter you have from me will be from Kentuck. [You sent] me a letter that you had received from Hannah. Poor Hann, O how I should like to see her,  I was very glad to hear from her, but very, very, sory to hear that she was recovering from her sickness so slowly. I was expecting to hear that she, was about comeing home  I feel certain if she was only well enough to come home, that she would soon be well. Mother, you must urge her to come on just as soon as she is well enough to stand the journey. I have seen a New York Herald, as late as July 9th  it seems, that the Army of the Potomac, has at last done something pretty nice,  the paper speaks as though the capture of Lee's Army was certain, but we have had him in a tight spot so often before that I cant help thinking that he will manage some way to get off. Walt seems to be getting along very well there in Washington. Andrew he says did not go to Newbern.8 I am glad to hear that he is getting better of his throat disease. I hope Mother, when we get back to Kentucky that I shall hear from you again often. Mattie and the baby, Walt says  are getting along finely. Mother I hope you are well,  you must take things easy this hot weather  Tell Jeff to write to me often and let me know how things are getting along at home  and Mother, you must write yourself as often as you can get a chance. I see by Walts letter that you have received the 200 dollars that I sent you at last pay. Good bye Dear Mother    Kind regards to all,Geo. W. Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00141.html," Letter from Alvah H. Small to Walt Whitman ,","Jul 24, 1863",0.176934584523," Mr. Whitman Dear Sir I will now improve a few moments to pen you a few lines in accordance to your request. I left Washington last Monday at 3 oclock in the afternoon and arrived in Baltimore at 5 Oclock and I then reached this Citty and took the cars again at 9 Oclock and arrived here in Williamsport the next morning at 10 oclock. I had a very pleasant passage and enjoyed the ride very much but yet I found that my wounds were somewhat situated and they have been more sore than usual and so I have not gone about the place a great deal yet, but what I have seen so far I think I like the place very much. The Business is chiefly lumbering and it is carried on in a more extensive manner than I have ever before seen it and the place is fast building up and will very soon be incorporated into a citty. I like the place very much what I have seen of it yet I have not been about but a little and I cannot write you so much as I would like to and so I will write you again. I want to hear from Washington and how things are moving and will be much pleased to hear from you and I will try to write you more in my next letter.   I remain yours truly,  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00127.html," Letter from Lewis K. Brown to Walt Whitman ,","Jul 27, 1863",0.177342581259," Dear Freind Walter. I again take my pen in hand to write a few lines to you to let you know how I am a getting  This makes the second Letter that I have wrote to you but as I expect the other one did not reach you I will try, try again, or maybe you have bin sick or have not had time to write, but I hope that you are not sick for you could not have as good attendance thear as if you wer at home and I do not know what the boys about the Hospital would do for they would miss you verry much. I got a letter from Tom. Sawyer2 on Saturday he is well and sens his love to you. he has bin in that Gettysburg Battle. he sais that it was awful, and that he never wants to see the like of it again My health is verry good, and my leg dos still continue's to mend slowly   but verry slow, the Doctor has took out three little pieces of bone out of it since I came home. I am enjoying my self as well as I can with my four legs but I cannot go about much yet I am a going out a carriage riding tomorrow if it dos not rain I do not know how I will stand it for it hurt me more riding from the Depot home than it did all the way in the cars. I will be back to the hospital about the last of August. I would like to be thear in time to see the boys present Doctor Bliss3 with that Case of instruments on the 23 of August, that will be my anaversary it will be just a year since I came to that hospital on that day so I think I will have to hurry back to see it. The farmers have got pretty near don Harvisting and the crops are pretty good without  it is grass and it is light and thear was so mutch wet weather that some of that was spoilt. No more at present but good by and write soon with my love to you and all enquiring friends, I remain your sincear friend Lewis K. Brown. Direct your letter to Lewis K. Brown Elkton, Cecil Country, (Md). paper is scarce so I will have to close good by and God bless you. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyh.00001.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Mr. and Mrs. Samuel B. Haskell ,","Jul 27, 1863",0.177342581259,"  Washington |  July 27 1863  Mr and Mrs Haskell Your son Erastus Haskell,1 of Co K 141st New York, is now lying sick with typhoid fever here in hospital. I have been with him quite a good deal, from day to day, was with him yesterday & indeed almost every day, & feel much interested in the young man. He has been very sick, & seems to be so now, as I should judge, but the doctor says he will recover. I had a talk with the doctor yesterday, & he says so still. But Erastus seems to me very sick, & I thought I would write to you. He had some one write to you about two weeks ago, but has received no answer. Erastus does not talk much, so I do not understand much about his affairs. I am merely a friend. The address of Erastus is Ward E, Armory Square Hospital | Washington D C should you wish to write to him direct. Walt Whitman care Major Hapgood, paymaster | U S A cor 15th & F st | Washington | D C Upon second thought I enclose you an envelope to send your letter to Erastus   put a stamp on it, & write soon. I suppose you know he has been sick a great deal since he has been in the service.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/med.00302.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jul 28, 1863",0.177478580171,"  Washington,  July 28, 1863.  Dear M., I am writing this in the hospital, sitting by the side of a soldier, I do not expect to last many hours. His fate has been a hard one   he seems to be only about 19 or 20   Erastus Haskell2, company K, 141st N. Y.   has been out about a year, and sick or half-sick more than half that time   has been down on the peninsula   was detail'd to go in the band as fifer-boy. While sick, the surgeon told him to keep up with the rest   (probably work'd and march'd too long.) He is a shy, and seems to me a very sensible boy   has fine manners   never complains   was sick down on the peninsula in old storehouse   typhoid fever. The first week this July was brought up here   journey very bad, no accommodations, no nourishment, nothing but hard jolting, and exposure enough to make a well man sick; (these fearful journeys do the job for many)   arrived here July 11th   a silent dark-skinn'd Spanish-looking youth, with large very dark blue eyes, peculiar looking. Doctor F. here made light of his sickness   said he would recover soon, &c.; but I thought very different, and told F. so repeatedly; (I came near quarreling with him about it from the first)   but he laugh'd, and would not listen to me. About four days ago, I told Doctor he would in my opinion lose the boy without doubt   but F. again laugh'd at me. The next day he changed his opinion   I brought the head surgeon of the post   he said the boy would probably die, but they would make a hard fight for him. The last two days he has been lying panting for breath   a pitiful sight. I have been with him some every day or night since he arrived. He suffers a great deal with the heat   says little or nothing   is flighty the last three days, at times   knows me always, however   calls me ""Walter""   (sometimes calls the name over and over and over again, musingly, abstractly, to himself.) His father lives at Breesport, Chemung county, N. Y., is a mechanic with large family   is a steady, religious man; his mother too is living. I have written to them, and shall write again to-day   Erastus has not receiv'd a word from home for months. As I sit here writing to you, M., I wish you could see the whole scene. This young man lies within reach of me, flat on his back, his hands clasp'd across his breast, his thick hair cut close; he is dozing, breathing hard, every breath a spasm   it looks so cruel. He is a noble youngster,   I consider him past all hope. Often there is no one with him for a long while. I am here as much as possible. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00128.html," Letter from William E. Vandemark to Walt Whitman ,","Jul 31, 1863",0.177886576907, Friend witman I now take the plesure of fulfilling my promace of writing to yo hoping to find yo en Joying good hlth I am not very well i am worse now than wen i got out of bed i tore my wound acoming home the hole is a bout half an inch square I hante ben noware sence i have been home i have had the docter and he ordered me to bathe in sider soaky i will hef to have my furlow exstended I would have written be fore but i was not able to do it yo must exscuse me    the crops look much better here than they do in washington I find a grate many that donte know me when i arrived in york my cosin was thare and he brought me to my home it has ben rainy ever since I have been home    give my love to the boys in ward B I will be back Just as soon as i am able to come No more at present Good by answer by return mail from a friend and ever shall be 
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00184.html, Letter from Walt Whitman to Thomas P. Sawyer,"Aug 0, 1863",0.177886576907," Dear brother,2 You did not write any answer to my last two letters, now quite a while ago, still I will write again. I still remain here in Washington, finding just about work enough to pay my expenses. Occasionaly go to Armory Hospital. I see Lewy Brown always, he has returned from his furlough, he told me a few days ago he had written to you, & had sent you my best respects   I told him he must never send my respects to you but always my love. Lewy's leg has not healed, gives him trouble yet. He goes around with crutches, but not very far. He is the same good young man as ever, & always will be. Well, Tom, it looks as though secesh was nearly played out   if they lose Charleston, as I believe they will soon, seems to be they may as well give it up   Some think that Lee will make another dash up this way, but I should think Gettysburgh might last him a while yet. Dear brother, how I should like to see you   & would like to know how things have gone with you for three months past. I cant understand why you have ceased to correspond with me. Any how I hope we shall meet again, & have some good times. So, dearest comrade, good bye for present & God bless you. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00886.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Lewis K. Brown ,","Aug 1, 1863",0.178022575819,"  Washington  August 1 1863  Both your letters have been received, Lewy2   the second one came this morning, & was welcome, as any thing from you will always be, & the sight of your face welcomer than all, my darling   I see you write in good spirits, & appear to have first-rate times   Lew, you must not go around too much, nor eat & drink too promiscuous, but be careful & moderate, & not let the kindness of friends carry you away, lest you break down again, dear son   I was at the hospital yesterday four or five hours, was in ward K   Taber3 has been down sick, so he had to lay abed, but he is better now, & goes around as usual   Curly4 is the same as usual   most of the others are the same   there have been quite a good many deaths   the young man who lay in bed 2 with a very bad leg is dead   I saw Johnny Mahay5 in ward E   poor fellow, he is very poorly, he is very thin, & his face is like wax   Lew, I must tell you what a curious thing happened in the chaplain's6 house night before last   there has been a man in ward I, named Lane, with two fingers amputated, very bad with gangrene, so they removed him to a tent by himself   last Thursday his wife came to see him, she seemed a nice woman but very poor, she stopt at the chaplain's   about 3 o'clock in the morning she got up & went to the sink, & there she gave birth to a child, which fell down the sink into the sewer runs beneath, fortunately the water was not turned on   the chaplain got up, carried Mrs Lane out, & then roused up a lot of men from the hospital, with spades &c. dug a trench outside, & got into the sink, & took out the poor little child, it lay there on its back, in about two inches of water   well, strange as it may seem, the child was alive, (it fell about five feet through the sink)   & is now living & likely to live, is quite bright, has a head of thick black hair   the chaplain took me in yesterday, showed me the child, & Mrs Jackson, his wife, told me the whole story, with a good deal I havn't told you   & then she treated me to a good plate of ice cream   so I staid there nearly an hour & had quite a pleasant visit. Mrs Lane lay in an adjoining room. Lew, as to me & my affairs there is nothing very new or important   I have not succeeded in getting any employment here yet, except that I write a little (newspaper correspondence &c), barely enough to pay my expenses   but it is my own fault, for I have not tried hard enough for any thing   the last three weeks I have not felt very well   for two or three days I was down sick, for the first time in my life, (as I have never before been sick)   I feel pretty fair to-day   I go around most every day the same as usual. I have some idea of giving myself a furlough of three or four weeks, & going home to Brooklyn, N Y, but I should return again to Washington, probably. Lew, it is pretty hot weather here, & the sun affects me   (I had a sort of sun stroke about five years ago)   You speak of being here in Washington again about the last of August   O Lewy, how glad I should be to see you, to have you with me   I have thought if it could be so that you, & one other person & myself could be where we could work & live together, & have each other's society, we three, I should like it so much   but it is probably a dream    Well, Lew, they had the great battle of Gettysburgh, but it does not seem to have settled any thing, except to have killed & wounded a great many thousand men   It seems as though the two armies were falling back again to near their old positions on the Rappahannock   it is hard to tell what will be the next move   yet, Lewy, I think we shall conquer yet   I don't believe it is destined that this glorious Union is to be broken up by all the secesh south, or copheads north either    Well, my darling, I have scribbled you off something to show you where I am & that I have rec'd your welcome letters   but my letter is not of much interest, for I don't feel very bright to-day   Dear son, you must write me whenever you can   take opportunity when you have nothing to do, & write me a good long letter   your letters & your love for me are very precious to me, for I appreciate it all, Lew, & give you the like in return. It is now about 3 o'clock, & I will go out & mail this letter, & then go & get my dinner   So good bye, Lewy   good bye, my dear son & comrade, & I hope it will prove God's will that you get quite well & sound yet, & have many good years yet    Walt Address my letters care Major Hapgood, paymaster U S A, cor. 15th & F st Washington D C    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00419.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Aug 4, 1863",0.178430572555,"  Brooklyn, N. Y. Tuesday Aug 4th [1863]1 Dear brother Walt, It has been a long time since I last wrote you, longer than I meant it should be, but I have been very busy indeed  Everything is going about as usual with us at home. We do not hear from George. I feel quite anxious about him and watch the paper quite close for something about the 51st but do not meet with any success.2 Andrew is not getting any better I fear. I think that he will hardly get well again Walt. The doctor[s] all say that he must go out from the seashore if he wants to get well. I am sure that it would be a good thing for him if he could do so for a while. Do you think of any way that it could be done. As for myself I am over head and heels in debt (borrowed money) which I am striving hard to pay up and hardly know how I can do anything worthy of being called help for him. He is badly off. He can hardly speak, nor eat anything, but worse than all I guess that his home comforts are not much. I dont think Nancy has the faculty of fixing things to eat for a sick man. Andrew still goes to the Navy Yard and thereby gets his pay, but I hardly thinks he does anything. Sometime he is much better than others but as a general thing he is mighty badly off. I wish you would think about the matter Walt, and let us hear what your idea is  Andrew wants to go but dont know where to go or how to leave his family. Mother I see is very much excited about him. Mother is getting along about as usual not quite as well perhaps, the warm,   hot,   wethre has a bad effect upon Mother. I dont think she looks as well as she did a month ago  Mattie is getting along first rate. The baby, as a matter of course, is cross,   cross as thunder   but Mat is patient and hard working and so gets along quite well. Hattie is also showing the effects of a so long continued [term?] of hot days and is cross and fretful. She often wishes that you would come and take her on fort Greene.3 She seems to think that that is your mission. The baby is growing finely and is getting to look almost like Hattie did at her age. Her hair is getting lighter and i guess will be about the color of mine The enclosed $2 is sent $1 by John D. Martin4 and $1 by Henry Carlow.5 I wish you would write me a Hospital letter. I think I can get some money on it. Any way Walt so long as the Spondulix6 comes. A ""Mr Fulton, of the New York Times""7 came some time since and got your address and again a few days since and wanted me when I wrote you to ask if you had received a letter from him. He said that he had written you but had not received a reply and [was] afraid you had not received it Do you have any idea where the 9 Corps is. I guess down in Miss. yet  I think not hearing from George hurts Mother about as much as any thing. I too feel pretty anxious Ruggles8 thinks that you could make a good thing by writing letters to the Times, better than the lectures.9 Write me, Walt. Jeff"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00778.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to James Redpath ( ? ) ,","Aug 6, 1863",0.178702570379," Dear friend,2 I am going to write you to ask any friends you may be in communication with for aid for my soldiers. I remain here in Washington still occupied among the hospitals   I have now been engaged in this over seven months. As time passes on it seems as if sad cases of old & lingering wounded accumulate, regularly recruited with new ones every week   I have been most of this day in Armory Square Hospital, Seventh st. I seldom miss a day or evening. Out of the six or seven hundred in this Hosp[ital] I try to give a word or a trifle to every one without exception, making regular rounds among them all. I give all kinds of sustenance, blackberries, peaches, lemons & sugar, wines, all kinds of preserves, pickles, brandy, milk, shirts & all articles of underclothing, tobacco, tea, handkerchiefs, &c &c &c. I always give paper, envelopes, stamps, &c. I want a supply for this purpose. To many I give (when I have it) small sums of money   half of the soldiers in hospital have not a cent. There are many returned prisoners, sick, lost all   & every day squads of men from [the] front, cavalry or infantry   brought in wounded or sick, generally without a cent of money. Then I select the most needy cases & devote my time & services much to them. I find it tells best   some are mere lads, 17, 18, 19 or 20. Some are silent, sick, heavy hearted, (things, attentions, &c. are very rude in the army & hospitals, nothing but the mere hard routine, no time for tenderness or extras)   So I go round   Some of my boys die, some get well    O what a sweet unwonted love (those good American boys, of good stock, decent, clean, well raised boys, so near to me)   what an attachment grows up between us, started from hospital cots, where pale young faces lie & wounded or sick bodies. My brave young American soldiers   now for so many months I have gone around among them, where they lie. I have long discarded all stiff conventions (they & I are too near to each other, there is no time to lose, & death & anguish dissipate ceremony here between my lads & me)   I pet them, some of them it does so much good, they are so faint & lonesome   at parting at night sometimes I kiss them right & left   The doctors tell me I supply the patients with a medicine which all their drugs & bottles & powders are helpless to yield. I wish you would ask any body you know who is likely to contribute   It is a good holy cause, surely nothing nobler   I desire you if possible could raise for me, forthwith, for application to these wounded & sick here, (they are from Massachusetts & all the New England states, there is not a day but I am with some Yankee boys, & doing some trifle for them)   a sum   if possible $50   if not, then less   $30   or indeed any am't    I am at present curiously almost alone here, as visitor & consolator to Hospitals   the work of the different Reliefs & Commissions is nearly all off in the field   & as to private visitors, there are few or none   I wish you or some of your friends could just make a round with me, for an hour or so, at some of my hospitals or camps   I go among all our own dear soldiers, hospital camps & army, our teamsters' hospitals, among sick & dying, the rebels, the contrabands, &c &c. What I reach is necessarily but a drop in the bucket but it is done in good faith, & with now some experience & I  hope with good heart. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00779.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Hugo Fritsch , Before","Aug 7, 1863",0.178838569291," My honest thanks to you, Hugo,1 for your letter posting me up not only about yourself but about my dear boys, Fred, Nat Bloom2   always so welcome to me to hear personally or in any way any & every item about them. Dear friend, the same evening I rec'd your letter, I saw in the New York papers (which get here about 5 every evening) the announcement of Charles Chauncey's death.3 When I went up to my room that night towards 11 I took a seat by the open window in the splendid soft moonlit night, and, there alone by myself, (as is my custom sometimes under such circumstances), I devoted to the dead boy the silent cheerful tribute of an hour or so of floating thought about him, & whatever rose up from the thought of him, & his looks, his handsome face, his hilarious fresh ways, his sunny smile, his voice, his blonde hair, his talk, his caprices   the way he & I first met   how we spoke together impromptu, no introduction   then our easy falling into intimacy   he with his affectionate heart thought so well of me, & I loved him then, & love him now   I thought over our meetings together, our drinks & groups so friendly, our suppers with Fred & Charley Russell4 &c. off by ourselves at some table, at Pfaff's5 off the other end   O how charming those early times, adjusting our friendship, I to the three others, although it needed little adjustment   for I believe we all loved each other more than we supposed   Chauncey was frequently the life & soul of these gatherings   was full of sparkle, & so good, really witty   then for an exception he would have a mood come upon him & right after the outset of our party, he would grow still & cloudy & up & unaccountably depart   but these were seldom   then I got to having occasionally quite a long walk with him, only us two, & then he would talk well & freely about himself, his experiences, feelings, quite confidential, &c. All these I resumed, sitting by myself. Hugo, that's the way I sat there Wednesday night till after midnight (the pleasant Virginia breeze coming up the Potomac) and certainly without what they call mourning thought of the boy. Dear Hugo, you speak of your all remembering me and wish to see me, it would be happiness for me to be with you all, at one of your friendly meetings, especially at Fred's room,6 so pleasant, with its effect I remember of pictures, fine color, &c. to have the delight of my dear boys' company & their gayety & electricity, their precious friendship, the talk & laughter, the drinks, me surrounded by you all, (so I will for a moment fancy myself,) tumbled upon by you all, with all sorts of kindness, smothered with you all in your hasty thoughtless, magnificent way, overwhelmed with questions, Walt this, Walt that, & Walt every thing. Ah, if one could float off to New York this afternoon. It is Sunday afternoon now, & perhaps you are at this moment gathered at Fred's or at your house, & having a good time. I suppose you were at Charles Chauncey's funeral   tell me about it, & all particulars about his death. When you write, tell.7 "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00780.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Hugo Fritsch ,","Aug 7, 1863",0.178838569291," Dear Hugo,2 I rec'd a letter from Bloom yesterday   but, before responding to it (which I will do soon) I must write to you, my friend. Your good letter of June 27th was duly rec'd   I have read it many times   indeed, Hugo, you know not how much comfort you give, by writing me your letters   posting me up. Well, Hugo, I am still as much as ever, indeed more, in the great military hospitals here. Every day or night I spend four, five, or six hours, among my sick, wounded, prostrate boys. It is fascinating, sad, & with varied fortune of course. Some of my boys get well, some die. After I finish this letter (and then dining at a restaurant), I shall give the latter part of the afternoon & some hours of the night to Armory Square Hospital, a large establishment & one I find most calling on my sympathies & ministrations. I am welcomed by the surgeons as by the soldiers   very grateful to me. You must remember that these government hospitals are not filled as with human débris like the old established city hospitals, New York, &c., but mostly [with] these good-born American young men, appealing to me most profoundly, good stock, often mere boys, full of sweetness & heroism   often they seem very near to me, even as my own children or younger brothers. I make no bones of petting them just as if they were   have long given up formalities & reserves in my treatment of them. Let me see, Hugo. I will not write any thing about the topics of the horrible riots of last week,3 nor Gen. Meade, nor Vicksburgh, nor Charleston   I leave them to the newspapers. Nor will I write you this time so much about hospitals as I did last. Tell Fred his letter was received   I appreciate it, received real pleasure from it   'twas a true friend's letter, characteristic, full of vivacity, off hand, & below all a thorough base of genuine remembrance & good will   was not wanting in the sentimental either   (so I take back all about the apostate, do you understand, Freddy, my dear?)   & only write this for you till I reply to that said letter a good long (especial) missive to yourself. I4 meant to [tell] Nat Bloom that if he expects to provoke me into a dignified not mentioning him, nor writing any thing about him, by his studious course of heart-breaking neglect, (which has already reduced me to a skeleton of but little over 200 lbs & a countenance of raging hectic, indicating an early grave), I was determined not to do any thing of the sort, but shall speak of him every time, & send him my love, just as if he were adorned with faithful troth instead of (as I understand) beautiful whiskers   Does he think that beautiful whiskers can fend off the pangs of remorse? In conclusion I have to say, Nathaniel, you just keep on if you think there's no hell. Hugo, I suppose you were at Charles Chauncey's5 funeral   tell me all you hear about the particulars of his death   Tell me of course all about the boys, what you do, say, any thing, every thing6    Hugo, write oftener   you express your thoughts perfectly   do you not know how much more agreeable to me is the conversation or writing that does not take hard paved tracks, the usual & stereotyped, but has little peculiarities & even kinks of its own, making its genuineness   its vitality? Dear friend, your letters are precious to me   none I have received from any one are more so. Ah, I see in your letter, Hugo, you speak of my being reformed   no, I am not so frightfully reformed either, only the hot weather here does not admit of drinking heavy drinks, & there is no good lager here   then besides I have no society   I expect to prove to you & all yet that I am no backslider   But here I go nowhere for mere amusement, only occasionally a walk. And Charles Russell   how I should like to see him   how like to have one of our old times again   Ah Fred, and you, dear Hugo, & you repentant one with the dark-shining whiskers7   must there not be an hour, an evening in the future, when we four returning concentrating New York-ward or elsewhere, shall meet, allowing no interloper, & have our drinks & things, & resume the chain & consolidate & achieve a night better & mellower than ever   we four? Hugo, I wish you to give my love to all the boys   I received a letter from Ben Knower, very good   I shall answer it soon   Give my love to Ben   If Charles Kingsley8 is in town same to him   ditto Mullen   ditto Perk,10 (I hope to hear that sweet, sweet fiddler one of these days, that strain again.) I wish to have Fred Gray say something from me, giving my love to his mother & father   I bear them both in mind   I count on having good interviews with them when I see New York. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00142.html," Letter from Lewis K. Brown to Walt Whitman ,","Aug 10, 1863",0.179246566027," My Dear Friend Walter, Your very kind and long looked for letter of Aug 1st came to hand on the 6th & I was verry glad to hear from you but was verry sorry to hear that you wer so sick & I think that it would be much better for your health if you would give your self that furlou but I think that the boys about the Hospital could ill spare you, if you are as good to them as you wer to me. I shal never for get you for your kindness to me while I was a suffering so mutch, and if you do not get your reward in this world you will in Heaven. Now I will put in a word for myself my leg still continues to mend verry slow but I hope sure, and I have ben enjoying my self as well as I could with my sore leg I have bin a way on a visit for a week & I have enjoyed my sel[f] verry much (for a wounded soldier is something hear I tell you) for the people wer so kind to me. Walter, we have a good many copperheads hear and some of them are verry rank I can tell you, and I have bin insulted by them twice since I came home, but I manage them verry well, I believe if I was in a battle & see a copperhead & a Reblle I would shoot the copperhead first, and to tell you the truth I am proud of my wound for I think that it is an honor to be wounded in this Cause. If I was able to enlist again, I would willingly do it. But we want first such men as you to stay at home and battle with treason in our midst, for I think that [a] good able Newspaper's correspondent dos a great deal to put down this rebelion & if we all leave home the rebbles will get to bold about home so I think that it is better as it is. Well Walter how mutch I would like to see you out hear  it is not near so warm out hear in the country and fruit is a getting ripe. Appels & Pairs & Peaches. & they are so nice to pull them of[f] of the trees them selves. Walter I cannot write any thing that will interest you but I will try and fill up with something. The farmers are most all don Harvisting the crops are all light  the wheat mostly was verry thin on the ground but well filled  the Oats are verry light hardly worth a cutting (in fact there is a good many that wont cut them at all) the flax is allso short but there will be quite a lot of seed. Corn looks verry promising I dont remember of ever seeing it look better at this time of year. We have plenty of green corn to eat and it is very nice. My Dear friend I hardly know what to put in this to interest you for I have wrot most everything that I can think of so I will give you a discription of My Fathers little place  there is about 4 acres in it but the most of it is woodland we have a small stone hous about 18 by 24 ft. it has bin built about 6 years we are a going to build an end to it this fall about the same sise as it is too small, we have a nice little stable. We keep 1 horse and two cows and two hogs we have in a nice little field of corn & we had a nice little field of wheat & a pack of Irish Tralas, Water melons and cantilops, and every thing that is good & last though not least and a exelant spring of watter close to the door Well I think I will have to fetch my letters to a close and you must not be angry for writing so much foolishness for you know that I am young and foolish all I have to add is my love to you good by and write soon from your ever faithful friend & companion, L. Brown "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyh.00002.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Mr. and Mrs. S. B. Haskell ,","Aug 10, 1863",0.179246566027,"  Washington  August 10 1863  Mr and Mrs Haskell,2 Dear friends, I thought it would be soothing to you to have a few lines about the last days of your son Erastus Haskell of Company K, 141st New York Volunteers. I write in haste, & nothing of importance   only I thought any thing about Erastus would be welcome. From the time he came to Armory Square Hospital till he died, there was hardly a day but I was with him a portion of the time   if not during the day, then at night. I had no opportunity to do much, or any thing for him, as nothing was needed, only to wait the progress of his malady. I am only a friend, visiting the wounded & sick soldiers, (not connected with any society   or State.) From the first I felt that Erastus was in danger, or at least was much worse than they in the hospital supposed. As he made no complaint, they perhaps [thought him]3 not very bad   I told the [doctor of the ward] to look him over again   he was a much [sicker boy?] than he supposed, but he took it lightly, said, I know more about these fever cases than you do   the young man looks very sick, but I shall certainly bring him out of it all right. I have no doubt the doctor meant well & did his best   at any rate, about a week or so before Erastus died he got really alarmed & after that he & all the doctors tried to help him, but without avail   Maybe it would not have made any difference any how   I think Erastus was broken down, poor boy, before he came to the hospital here   I believe he came here about July 11th   Somehow I took to him, he was a quiet young man, behaved always correct & decent, said little   I used to sit on the side of his bed   I said once, You don't talk any, Erastus, you leave me to do all the talking   he only answered quietly, I was never much of a talker. The doctor wished every one to cheer him up very lively   I was always pleasant & cheerful with him, but did not feel to be very lively   Only once I tried to tell him some amusing narratives, but after a few moments I stopt, I saw that the effect was not good, & after that I never tried it again   I used to sit by the side of his bed, pretty silent, as that seemed most agreeable to him, & I felt it so too   he was generally opprest for breath, & with the heat, & I would fan him   occasionally he would want a drink   some days he dozed a good deal   sometimes when I would come in, he woke up, & I would lean down & kiss him, he would reach out his hand & pat my hair & beard a little, very friendly, as I sat on the bed & leaned over him. Much of the time his breathing was hard, his throat worked   they tried to keep him up by giving him stimulants, milk-punch, wine &c   these perhaps affected him, for often his mind wandered somewhat   I would say, Erastus, don't you remember me, dear son?   can't you call me by name?   once he looked at me quite a while when I asked him, & he mentioned over in[audibly?] a name or two (one sounded like [Mr. Setchell]) & then, as his eyes closed, he said quite slow, as if to himself, I don't remember, I dont remember, I dont remember   it was quite pitiful   one thing was he could not talk very comfortably at any time, his throat & chest seemed stopped   I have no doubt at all he had some complaint besides the typhoid   In my limited talks with him, he told me about his brothers & sisters by name, & his parents, wished me to write to his parents & send them & all his love   I think he told me about his brothers living in different places, one in New York City, if I recollect right   From what he told me, he must have been poorly enough for several months before he came to Armory Sq[uare] Hosp[ital]   the first week in July I think he told me he was at the regimental hospital at a place called Baltimore Corners not many miles from White House, on the peninsula   previous to that, for quite a long time, although he kept around, he was not at all well   couldn't do much   was in the band as a fifer I believe   While he lay sick here he had his fife laying on the little stand by his side   he once told me that if he got well he would play me a tune on it4   but, he says, I am not much of a player yet. I was very anxious he should be saved, & so were they all   he was well used by the attendants   poor boy, I can see him as I write   he was tanned & had a fine head of hair, & looked good in the face when he first came, & was in pretty good flesh too   (had his hair cut close about ten or twelve days before he died)   He never complained   but it looked pitiful to see him lying there, with such a look out of his eyes. He had large clear eyes, they seemed to talk better than words   I assure you I was attracted to him much   Many nights I sat in the hospital by his bedside till far in the night   The lights would be put out   yet I would sit there silently, hours, late, perhaps fanning him   he always liked to have me sit there, but never cared to talk   I shall never forget those nights, it was a curious & solemn scene, the sick & wounded lying around in their cots, just visible in the darkness, & this dear young man close at hand lying on what proved to be his death bed   I do not know his past life, but what I do know, & what I saw of him, he was a noble boy   I felt he was one I should get very much attached to. I think you have reason to be proud of such a son, & all his relatives have cause to treasure his memory. I write to you this letter, because I would do something at least in his memory   his fate was a hard one, to die so   He is one of the thousands of our unknown American young men in the ranks about whom there is no record or fame, no fuss made about their dying so unknown, but I find in them the real precious & royal ones of this land, giving themselves up, aye even their young & precious lives, in their country's cause   Poor dear son, though you were not my son, I felt to love you as a son, what short time I saw you sick & dying here   it is as well as it is, perhaps better   for who knows whether he is not better off, that patient & sweet young soul, to go, than we are to stay? So farewell, dear boy   it was my opportunity to be with you in your last rapid days of death   no chance as I have said to do any thing particular, for nothing [could be done   only you did not lay] here & die among strangers without having one at hand who loved you dearly, & to whom you gave your dying kiss    Mr and Mrs Haskell, I have thus written rapidly whatever came up about Erastus,5 & must now close. Though we are strangers & shall probably never see each other, I send you & all Erastus' brothers & sisters my love    Walt I live when home, in Brooklyn, N Y. (in Portland avenue, 4th door north of Myrtle, my mother's residence.) My address here is care of Major Hapgood, paymaster U S A, cor 15th & F st, Washington D C. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00781.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Aug 11, 1863",0.179382564939,"  Washington,  August 11 1863  Dear mother, I sent Jeff a letter on Sunday, I suppose he got at the office   I feel so anxious to hear from George, one cannot help feeling uneasy, although these days sometimes it cannot help being long intervals without one's hearing from friends in the army   O I do hope we shall hear soon, & that it is all right with him   it seems as if the 9th corps had returned to Vicksburgh, & some acc'ts say that part of the corps had started to come up the river again   toward Kentucky I suppose   I have sent George two letters within a week past,1 hoping they might have the luck to get to him, but hardly expect it either    Mother, I feel very sorry to hear Andrew is so troubled in his throat yet, I know it must make you feel very unhappy   Jeff wrote me a good deal about it, & seems to feel very bad about Andrew's being unwell   but I hope it will go over, & that a little time will make him recover   I think about it every day2    Mother, it has been the hottest weather here that I ever experienced, & still continues so   yesterday & last night was the hottest   still I slept sound, have good ventilation through my room, little as it is, (I still hire the same room in L street)   I was quite wet with sweat this morning when I woke up, a thing I never remember to have happened to me before, for I was not disturbed in my sleep & did not wake up once all night   Mother, I believe I did not tell you that on the 1st of June (or a while before) the O'Connor's, the friends I took my meals with so long, moved to other apartments, far more room & pleasanter   not far off though, I am there every day almost, a little   so for nearly two months & a half I have been in the habit of getting my own breakfast in my room & my dinner at a restaurant   I have a little spirit lamp, & always have a capital cup of tea, & some bread, & perhaps some preserved fruit   for dinner I get a good plate of meat & plenty of potatoes, good & plenty, for 25 or 30 cents   I hardly ever take any thing more than these two meals, both of them are pretty hearty   eat dinner about 3   my appetite is plenty good enough, & I am about as fleshy as I was in Brooklyn   Mother, I feel better the last ten days, & at present, than I did the preceding six or eight weeks   there was nothing particular the matter with me, but I suppose a different climate & being so continually in the hospitals   but as I say I feel better, more strength & better in my head &c.   About the wound in my hand & the inflammation, &c.3 it has thoroughly healed, & I have not worn any thing on my hand, nor had any dressing for the last five days   Mother, I hope you get along with the heat, for I see it is as bad or worse in New York & Brooklyn   I am afraid you suffer from it, it must be distressing to you   dear mother, do let things go, & just sit still & fan yourself   I think about you these hot days   I fancy I see you down there in the basement   I suppose you have your coffee for breakfast   I have not had three cups of coffee in six months, tea altogether   (I must come home & have some coffee for breakfast with you)    Mother, I wrote to you about Erastus Haskell,4 co K 141st N Y   his father, poor old man, come on here to see him, & found him dead three days, he had the body embalmed & took home   they are poor folks but very respectable   I was at the hospital yesterday as usual   I never miss a day   I go by my feelings   if I should feel that it would be better for me to lay by a while, I should do so, but not while I feel so well as I do the past week, for all the hot weather, & while the chance lasts I would improve it, for by & by the night cometh when no man can work, (ain't I getting pious?) I got a letter from Probasco5 yesterday, he sent $4 for my sick & wounded   I wish Jeff to tell him that it came right, & give him the men's thanks & my love    Mother, have you heard any thing from Han? And about Mary's Fanny6   I hope you will write me soon & tell me everything   tell me exactly as things are, but I know you will   I want to hear family affairs before any thing else   I am so glad to hear Mat is good & hearty   you must write me about Hat & little black head too   Mother, how is Eddy getting along   and Jess, is he about the same   I suppose Will Brown is home all right, tell him I spoke about him, & the Browns too7   dearest mother, I send you my love, & to Jeff too   must write when you can    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00887.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Lewis K. Brown ,","Aug 11, 1863",0.179382564939,"  Washington |  August 11 1863  Dear Lewy, I thought I would write you a few lines to-day   I suppose you rec'd a letter from me eight or nine days ago1   I hope this will find you in good health & spirits   I wrote to you not to go about too much, & eat & drink too freely, & I must repeat the caution   a fellow can keep himself in good condition by a little care & prudence    Well, Lewy, the presentation to Dr Bliss2 came off last Saturday evening   it was in ward F   the beds were all cleared out, the sick put in other wards   the room cleaned, hung with greens &c., looked very nice   the instruments were there on exhibition the afternoon. I took a view of them, they were in four cases, & looked very fine   in the evening they were presented   speeches were made by one & another   there was a band of music &c   I stopt about 20 minutes, but got tired, & went off among the boys that were confined to their beds   the room was crowded, & every thing passed off right I heard    Lewy, we have had the hottest weather here I ever experienced   it has been now about ten days, & no let up yet   Yesterday & last night was the hottest, no rain for some time & the air prickly & burning   Still I am enjoying very good health, thank God   better this last week than I have had for two or three months   I have some thought of going on to New York for a short time, as I have not been home now in eight months, but if I do, I shall pretty surely return here before long   Lewy, the draft has been put through here in Washington the past week   they drafted lots of secessionists & quite a good many darks   (I wonder if it wouldn't be a good plan to draft all of both them kinds)   I don't hear any particular war news   the Army of the Potomac is down around Warrenton   there are conscripts arriving there to fill up the reg'ts, more or less every day   it will be a great & sudden change of life to many, especially such weather as this. I believe I told you in my last letter about the strange way the baby was born in the Chaplain's   well the baby is alive & growing like a pig, & the father Mr Lane is getting well, Mrs Lane ditto   Dr Bliss is just going off on a furlough   the Chaplain & wife have left on a furlough   Taber3 & the rest in ward K are all right   there have been quite a good many deaths in hospital the past week or so, the heat is bad for the poor wounded men    Well, Lewy, I must now wind up   I send you my love, my darling son & comrade, & request you to write me soon as convenient, how you are getting along & all about things   I will write again before very long, till then good bye & God bless you, dear son    Walt Whitman address | care Major Hapgood paymaster U S A cor 15th & F st Washington D C    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00888.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Lewis K. Brown ,","Aug 15, 1863",0.179926560588,"  Washington |  August 15 1863  Lewy, your letter of August 10 came safe, & was glad to hear all about you, & the way you are spending the time   Lew, you must be having first rate times out there   well you need something to make up what you have suffered   You speak of being used well out there   Lewy, I feel as if I could love any one that uses you well, & does you a kindness   but what kind of heart must that man have that would treat otherwise, or say any thing insulting, to a crippled young soldier, hurt in fighting for this union & flag? (Well I should say damned little man or heart in the business)    Should you meet any such, you must not mind them, dear comrade, & not allow your feelings to be hurt by such loafers   (I agree with you that a rebel in the southern army is much more respectable than a northern copperhead.) Dear son, when I read about your agreeable visit of a week, & how much you enjoyed yourself, I felt as much gratified as though I had enjoyed it myself   & I was truly thankful to hear that your leg is still doing well, & on the gain   you must not mind its being slowly, dear son, if it only goes forward instead of backward, & you must try to be very careful of your eating & drinking &c., not indulge in any excesses, & not eat too much flummery, but generally plain food, for that is always best, & it helps along so much. Lewy, I believe I wrote you an acc't of the presentation to Dr Bliss   he is now off north for three weeks   Dr Butler1 (ward D) is in charge   some of the doctors & wardmasters have been drafted   poor Johnny Mahay2 is not in very good spirits   he was to have an operation performed before Bliss went, but he went off & did not do it   Johnny is pretty low some days   Things in ward K are pretty much the same   they had some improvem'ts in the Hospital, new sinks, much better, & the grounds in front & between the wards nicely laid out in flowers & grass plots &c.   but, Lew, it has been awful hot in the wards the past two weeks, the roofs burnt like fire    There is no particular war news   they are having batches of conscripts now every day in the Army   Meade is down on the upper Rappahannock & fords, & around Warrenton   Lee stretches down toward Gordonsville, they say his head quarters is there   folks are all looking toward Charleston   if we could only succeed there, I don't know what secesh would do   the ground seems to be slipping more & more from under their feet   Lew, the Union & the American Flag must conquer, it is destiny   it may be long, or it may be short, but that will be the result   but O what precious lives have been lost by tens of thousands in the struggle already    Lew, you speak in your letter how you would like to see me   well, my darling, I wonder if there is not somebody who would be gratified to see you, & always will be wherever he is   Dear comrade, I was highly pleased at your telling me in your letter about your folks' place, the house & land & all the items   you say I must excuse you for writing so much foolishness   nothing of the kind   My darling boy, when you write to me, you must write without ceremony, I like to hear every little thing about yourself & your affairs   you need never care how you write to me, Lewy, if you will only   I never think about literary perfection in letters either, it is the man & the feeling   Lewy, I am feeling pretty well, but the sun affects me a little, aching & fulness in the head   a good many have been sun-struck here the last two weeks   I keep shady through the middle of the day lately   Well, my dear boy, I have scribbled away any thing, for I wanted to write you to-day & now I must switch off   good by, my darling comrade, for the present, & I pray God to bless you now & always. Walt. Write when you feel like it, Lewy, don't hurry   address still care Major Hapgood, paymaster U S A, cor 15th & F st Washington D C. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00782.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Nathaniel Bloom ,","Aug 15, 1863",0.179926560588,"  Washington |  August 15 1863  Dear Nat,2 Your letter came safe & was received with cordial & forgiving welcome, (there is more joy over one sinner that repenteth at the last, than, &c &c)   But I don't know what right I have to lecture you    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00344.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Aug 16, 1863",0.1800625595,"  Camp near Covington Ky. Sunday eve.   Aug 16th/63 Dear Mother. Well here we are again back to old Kaintuck and glad enough we are to get back I can tell you. Mother it is a long, long, while since I have had a letter from you, but I hope and trust that you and Mattie, the babies, and all the rest of you are in good health and spirits. The last letter I received from Walt was written July 17th. Walt seems to be getting along very well and I have no doubt he is doing a great deal of good in the Hospitals at Washington.2 He says you have not heard from Hannah lately,  Mother as soon as you hear from her dont fail to send me word how she is getting along, and I hope to hear that she is (at least) well enough to come home. I have been perfectly healthy all through the Vicksburg campaign although there has been considerable sickness in our regt, especially during the last two weeks of our stay at Milldale. We only lost three men by sickness, but the deaths in some of the new regts was frightfull. One wooman came on there from Michagan after the body of her son, which she said was the seventh she had lost during the war. Six had been killed in battle, and this one makeing the Seventh, had died of fever and was burried near our camp. I sent you a letter from Milldale, just after our chase after Johnson (did you get it)3 and now, since we have got back to a civalized country, I will write you often. We struck camp at Milldale Miss. August 6th and marched down to the Yazoo river, where we went on board the boat, and started down the Yazoo, to the Mississippi, and then turned up the Miss. towards Cairo, Illanois. We landed a short time at Hellena Ark, Memphis, Tenn. and reached Cairo, on the morning of Aug 12th where we took the cars for Cincinnatti, Ohio  arrived at Cincinnatti about 3 O clock P.M. Aug 14th  marched to the 5th St. Market house where the citazens had prepared a nice meal for us,  after getting our grub we crossed the river and encamped at this place. We will probaly leave here in the course of a few days, and go to some other part of the State. Some think we will be sent to Tennessee but I think the probabilities are that we will stay somewhere in Ky. for a while to recruit up a bit, as the regt is pretty well used up. We were paid this afternoon up to the 1st of July and tomorrow I shall send you by Express, at least 175 dollars. I see by the papers that Spinnolas command is in Virginia so I suppose Andrew did not go to Newbern,4  We had pretty hard fare while we were down in Miss. but now we are liveing first rate,  we get plenty of bread and good butter, Eggs, milk, peaches, Melons, tomatoes, and all that kind of thing. Mother as soon as you get this write and let me know just how you are all getting along. Jeff. We have had full accounts of the procedings of the mob in New York, and its almost enough to make a fellow ashamed of being a Yorker,  the first accounts we saw were in the western papers, and I could hardly believe, that a thing of that kind would be alowed to get such headway in the City of New York,5  it strikes me that it would have been a good idea to have taken Fernando and Ben Wood6 Gov Seymour7 and a few more of the wire pullers and strung them up to one of the trees in the city Hall park. what a pity it is that 4 or 5 of the old regts, had not of been there to of straightened things up a bit,  as for myself I would have went into that fight with just as good a heart, as if they had belonged to the rebel army. I am only sory there wasent 10 times as many killed of the rioters as the was.  Jeff write to me directly. Mattie, how is it with you and how is the new baby8 getting along. Hattie I suppose is flourishing the same as usual. write to me Matt when you get a chance. Mother, you may expect to get 175 or 180 dollars nearly as soon as you receive this,  use what you want of it and put the rest in the bank. I shall write to Walt in the course of a day or two,  write soon  direct to Kentucky via Cincinnatti Good Bye all,G. W. Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00129.html," Letter from William E. Vandemark to Walt Whitman ,","Aug 17, 1863",0.180198558412, Dear friend witman I receive your letter [This letter is currently lost] yesterday and was glad to heer from yo and yo were en Joying good helth as for me i am not well my wound gans very slow the warm wether chafed me all to peces and now with all the rest i have got a large boil on my left knee my famly is well my little girl has ben quite sick but is well agen    the wether has ben very warm the hotest that i ever saw but yester-day it rained and to day it is cold enuf her to hafore[?] me thare was a funeral here an infant 3 weeks old but i could not tend the funeral    a nabor man of mine by the name of Felter Calder2 enlisted in the same ridgement that i did desurted rite after the fite at Gitiesburg and came horn and kep hid 3 weeks thare is 30 dollars reward on him i think they had or to hang him my furlow runs out next thursday the 20 but I hante able to come back i have riten to docter blis to have it extended i wish that yo would see him and tel him how it is if i donte heer from him i will come back Just as soon as i am able and let me know what he says about the exstention I will close now good by from a friend and well wishes 
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00143.html," Letter from Mary A. Babbitt ( for Caleb H. Babbitt ) to Walt Whitman ,","Aug 18, 1863",0.180334557324," Dear Sir, My brother wishes me to inform you of the state of his health, also of his journey home he arrived home last week Wednesday very much exhausted & he was obliged to take to his bed from which he has not yet got up. he has put off writing every day thinking the next day he would be able to write himself. He often speaks of you telling of your kindness during his sickness there, and wishes he could see you and tried to gratify himself by looking at your portraits which he has out 5 or 6 times during the day. the sister whom you have heard him speak of as being sick so long was carried to the Insane Hospital the day before his arrival. he is very anxious to hear from you & wants you should write him a good long letter to cheer him up for he has had the blues once since he came home.   Hoping to hear from you soon I am Yours respectfully,  Mary Babbitt [sister] for Caleb Babbitt  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00783.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Aug 18, 1863",0.180334557324,"  Washington |  August 18 1863  Dear Mother, I was mighty glad to get George's letter, I can tell you   you have not heard since, I suppose   they must be now back again in Kentucky, or that way, as I see a letter from Cairo, (up the Mississippi river,) that boats had stopt there with the 9th Corps on, from Vicksburgh, going up toward Cincinnati   I think the letter was dated Aug 10. I have no doubt they are back again up that way somewhere.1 I wrote to George, four or five days ago, I directed it Ohio, Mississippi or elsewhere    Mother, I was very glad indeed to get your letter   I am so sorry Andrew does not get any better, it is very distressing   about losing the voice, he must not be so much alarmed, as that continues sometimes years, & the health otherwise good2   Mother, you must have had a very unhappy day Heyde's first letter came, writing all such stuff as I guess no man living but he can tack together   I know how you must have felt, with your other annoyances, & every thing, mother. I do hope you will try not to let things cast you down, for they pass over somehow, & it hurts one so in old age to be taken down even for a day   Heyde is bound to make as much unhappiness as he can   (he is worse than bed bugs.) Mother, I wrote to Han about five days ago, told her we had heard from George, & all the news   I must write to Mary too, without fail   I should like to hear from them all, & from Fanny   There has been a young man here in hospital, from Farmingdale, he was wounded, his name is Hendrickson, he has gone home on a furlough, he knows the Van Nostrands very well, I told him to go & see Aunt Fanny.3 I was glad you gave Emma Price my direction here, I should like to hear from Mrs Price4 & her girls first rate, I think a great deal about them, &, mother, I wish you to tell any of them so, they always used me first rate, & always stuck up for me   if I knew their street & number I should write    It has been awful hot here, now for twenty one days   ain't that a spell of weather?   the first two weeks I got along better than I would have thought, but the last week I have felt it more, have felt it in my head a little   I no more stir without my umbrella, in the day time, than I would without my boots. I am afraid of the sun affecting my head, & move pretty cautious   Mother, I think every day, I wonder if this hot weather is affecting mother much, I suppose it must a good deal, but I hope it cannot last much longer   mother, I had a letter in the N Y Times of last Sunday5   did you see it? I wonder if George can't get a furlough & come home for a while, that furlough he had was only a flea bite   if he could it would be no more than right, for no man in the country has done his duty more faithful, & without complaining of any thing or asking for any thing, than George   I suppose they will fill up the 51st with conscripts, as that seems the order of the day   a good many are arriving here, from the north, & passing through to join Meade's army   we are expecting to hear of more rows in New York, about the draft   it commences there right away I see   this time it will be no such doings as a month or five weeks ago, the gov't here is forwarding a large force of regulars to New York to be ready for any thing that may happen   there will be no blank cartridges this time   Well, I thought when I first heard of the riot in N Y6 I had some feeling for them, but soon as I found what it really was, I felt it was the devil's own work all through   I guess the strong arm will be exhibited this time, up to the shoulder. Mother, I want to see you & all very much   As I wish to be here at the opening of Congress, & during the winter, I have an idea I will try to come home for a month, but I don't know when   I want to see the young ones & Mat & Jeff & every body   Well, mother, I should like to know all the domestic affairs home, don't you have the usual things, eating &c. Why, Mother, I should think you would eat nearly all your meals with Mat   I know you must when they have any thing good, (& I know Mat will have good things if she has got a cent left)   Mother, don't you miss Walt   loafing around, & carting himself off to New York, toward the latter part of every afternoon?   how do you & the Browns get along?   that hell-hole over the way, what a nuisance it must be nights   here it is very quiet nights, & I generally have a very good sleep   mother, I suppose you sleep in the back room yet   I suppose the new houses next door are occupied   how I should like to take a walk on old Fort Greene, tell Mannahatta her uncle Walt will be home yet, from the sick soldiers, & have a good walk all around, if she behaves good to her grandmother & don't cut up   Mother, I am scribbling this hastily in Major Hapgood's office, it is not so hot today, quite endurable. I send you my love, dear mother, & to all, & wish Jeff & you to write as often as you can    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00130.html," Letter from Lewis K. Brown to Walt Whitman ,","Aug 22, 1863",0.180878552972," Dear Friend Walt, Both of your letters came to hand, in due time & I insure you I was glad to hear from you and to hear that you wer enjoying good health. Dear Walt, I beg to be excused for not writing sooner, but to tell the truth we have had a good many visitors and when there was not visitors I was away, but you need not think that I have forgotton you. Your memory burns as bright as ever in my heart & allways will, thear is now doubt but some of my corrospondants in Washington has begin to think hard of me for not writing oftener, but I will be thear my self before long to make excuses'es in person. I will be thear on the last day of August, if I do not get my furlow extended, whitch I have the hopes of, for I would most as leave come back to see my old friends as stay at home. The Doctor that tens me hear wants me for to try and get my furlow extended, for he thinks that my leg will get worse if I go back while the weather is so hot, but I do not know how it will be yet (wont you advise me which is best) The Doctor thinks that he can have my furlow extended verry easy. Dear Walter I am enjoying my self fine as well, I think, as any cripple can. I was up to Quaker or Friends Quartily Meeting yesterday. (I expect you know what it is and may be have bin at one) thear was a great many thear & I seen a great many of my relations & freinds thear that I would not of seen if I had of stayed away. they had exelant preaching, but you must know that they are are on the Piece principle, and you know that I aint. I am for war as long as there is men & money until this sccussed Rebellion is put down for thear has bin to many good lives lost allready for to ever make a compromise, do not you think so. Well Dear Walter, it is just in the highth of the Peach & Appel season and we have some nice Peaches but we have not got any Apples now for our early ons are dun and we have not many late ones. We have some few Watermellons & cantilopes but not many I often think of the poor boys in the Hospital when I am eating them Walter I have no news to write so I will have to close this miserable scrach for I am aware that it is verry porely wrote (but I never mind the writing if the heart is all wright) so you must not mind this so with mutch love to you; and all enquiring friends I will bid you good by and God bless you from your friend and companion. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00784.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Aug 25, 1863",0.181286549708,"  Washington |  August 25 1863  Dear Mother, The letter from George & your lines, & a few from Jeff came yesterday, & I was glad indeed to be certain that George had got back to Kentucky safe & well1   while so many fall that we know or, what is about as bad, get sick or hurt in the fight, & lay in hospital, it seems almost a miracle that George should have gone through so much, south & north & east and west, & been in so many hard-fought battles, & thousands of miles of weary & exhausting marches, & yet have stood it so, & be yet alive & in good health & spirits   O mother, what would we [have] done if it had been otherwise   if he had met the fate of so many we know   if he had been killed or badly hurt in some of those battles   I get thinking about it sometimes, & it works upon me so I have to stop & turn my mind on something else    Mother, I feel bad enough about Andrew, & I know it must be so with you too   one don't know what do do   if we had money he would be welcome to it, if it would do any good   if George's money comes from Kentucky this last time & you think some of it would do Andrew any real good I advise you to take some & give him   I think it would be proper & George would approve of it2   I believe there is not much but trouble in this world, & if one hasn't any for himself he has it made up by having it brought close to him through others, & that is sometimes worse than to have it touch one'sself   Mother, you must not let Andrew's case & the poor condition of his household comforts &c. work upon you, for I fear you will, but, mother, it's no use to worry about such things   I have seen now so much horrors that befal men, (so bad & such suffering & mutilations, &c that the poor men can defy their fate to do any thing more or any harder misfortune or worse agony) that I sometimes think I have grown callous   but, no, I don't think it is that, but nothing of ordinary misfortune seems as it used to, & death itself has lost all its terrors   I have seen so many cases in which it was so welcome & such a relief    Mother, you must just resign yourself to things that occur   but I hardly think it is necessary to give you any charge about it, for I think you have done so for many years, & stood it all with good courage    We have a second attack of the hot weather   Sunday was the most burning day I ever yet saw   it is very dry & dusty here, but to-day we are having a middling good breeze   I feel pretty well, & whenever the weather for a day or so is passably cool I feel really first rate, so I anticipate the cooler season with pleasure    Mother, I believe I wrote to you I had a letter in N Y Times, Sunday 16th3   I shall try to write others & more frequently   the three Eagles came safe, I was glad to get them   I sent them & another paper to George   Mother, you none of you ever mention whether you get my letters, but I suppose they come safe   it is not impossible I may miss some week, but I have not missed a single one for months past   I wish I could send you something worth while & I wish I could send something for Andrew   Mother, write me exactly how it is with him4   I see you still have letters from Heyde, I hope they dont never come just as you are setting down to the table, for they would take away your appetite I know   Mother, I have some idea Han is getting some better, it is only my idea somehow   I hope it is so from the bottom of my heart   did you hear from Mary's Fanny5 since? And how are Mat's girls   so, Mannahatta, you tear Uncle George's letters, do you?6   you mustn't do so, little girl, nor Uncle Walt's either, but when you get to be a big girl, you must have them all nice, & read them, for grandmother will perhaps leave them to you in her will, if you behave like a lady   Matty, my dear sister, how are you getting along? I really want to see you, bad   & the baby too   well may be we shall all come together & have some good times yet   Jeff, I hope by next week this time we shall be in possession of Charleston   some papers say Burnside is moving for Knoxville, but it is doubtful   I think the 9th Corps might take a rest awhile anyhow   good bye, mother    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00144.html," Letter from C. L. Scott to Walt Whitman ,","Aug 31, 1863",0.18210254318,"   Friend Whitman Two weeks have quickly passed by since I left Armory Square Hospital. My journey home was very pleasant to me & what made it the more so (I suppose) was the anticipation of once more being with my friends. I arrived here on the 19th the joy of friends on my arrival I will not attempt to say anything about, only it seemed to be great. you no doubt can imagain a little how I felt in being once more where all the blessings & comforts of life seemed to encompass me, but though I am now here, I cannot forget the suffering in our country caused by this unholy, ungodly & nevertobeforgotten war. My mind is taken back to when I lay suffering in the Hospital & I have a particular feeling of gratitude to you for the many pleasant hours (to me) we have spent together.  what  is more consoling to the helpless (when away from home) than to find a friend, one in whom we can confide & trust, as was my case when I first made your acquaintance somehow or other you seemed like a father, why it was so I am unable to say, yet such was the case,  & I hav'nt the least doubt but such has been the case with thousands of other fellow soldiers, but I will not weary your patience, suffice it to say that I feel to rejoice that my lot is no worse & may the spirit that ever directs aright protect & keep you to be a comfort & blessing to many a weary one in their days of trouble, I remain your affectionate friend & brother,   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00785.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Sep 1, 1863",0.182238542092,"  Washington |  September 1 1863  Dear Mother, I have been thinking to-day & all yesterday about the draft in Brooklyn, & whether Jeff would be drafted   you must some of you write me just as soon as you get this1   I want to know, I feel anxious enough I can tell you   & besides it seems a good while since I have rec'd any letters from home   Of course it is impossible for Jeff to go, in case it should turn out he was drafted   the way our family is all situated now, it would be madness   If the Common Council raise the money to exempt men with families dependent on them, I think Jeff ought to have no scruples in taking advantage of it, as I think he is in duty bound   but we will see what course to take, when we know the result &c. Write about it right away. The Eagles came, this is the second time   I am always glad to get them   Jeff, wait till you get four or five, & then send them with a two cent stamp   I have not had any letter from George2   Mother, have you heard any thing? did the money come? Dear mother, how are you nowadays   I do hope you feel well & in good spirits   I think about you every day of my life out here   sometimes I see women in the hospitals, mothers come to see their sons, & occasionally one that makes me think of my dear mother   one did very much, a lady about 60, from Pennsylvania, come to see her son, a Captain, very badly wounded, & his wound gangrened, & they after a while removed him to a tent by himself   another son of hers, a young man, came with her to see his brother   she was pretty full-sized lady, with spectacles, she dressed in black, looked real Velsory. I got very well acquainted with her, she had a real Long-Island old fashioned way   but I had to avoid the poor Captain as it was that time that my hand was cut in the artery, & I was liable to gangrene myself   but she and the two sons have gone home now, but I doubt whether the wounded one is alive as he was very low    Mother, I want to hear about Andrew too, whether he went to Rockland lake3   You have no idea how many soldiers there are who have lost their voices, & have to speak in whispers   there are a great many, I meet some almost every day   As far as that alone is concerned Andrew must not be discouraged, as the general health may be good as common irrespective of that   I do hope Andrew will get along better than he thinks for   it is bad enough for a poor man to be out of health even partially, but he must try to look on the bright side    Mother, have you heard any thing from Han since, or from Mary's folks? I got a letter from Mrs Price4 last week, if you see Emma tell her I was pleased to get it, & shall answer it very soon   Mother, I have sent another letter to the N Y Times,5 it may appear, if not to-day, within a few days   I am feeling excellent well these days, it is so moderate & pleasant weather now, I was getting real exhausted with the heat. I thought of you too, how it must have exhausted you those hot days   I still occupy the same little 3d story room, 394 L st, & get my breakfast in my room in the morning myself, & dinner at a restaurant about 3 o'clock   I get along very well & very economical (which is a forced put, but just as well). But I must get another room or a boarding house soon, as the folks are all going to move this month   My good & real friends the O'Connors live in the same block, I am in there every day    Dear Mother, tell Mat & Miss Mannahatta I send them my love   I want to see them both   O how I want to see Jeff & you, mother, I sometimes feel as if I should just get in the cars & come home   & the baby too, you must always write about her   dear mother, good bye for present    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00786.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Mary A. Babbitt ,","Sep 3, 1863",0.182510539916,"  Washington |  September 3, 1863  Mary A. Babbitt,2 I write you regarding your brother Caleb   I rec'd your letter of August 18th & I have written to Caleb three letters since. But I have not heard a word about him, only your letter of August 18th    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00420.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Sep 5, 1863",0.18278253774,"  Brooklyn Sept 5 18631 Dear Walt, Mother gave me the enclosed letter to send you some days since but I forgot to mail it till now. We received your letter2 last night. The money from George came all safe  I sent you another letter from George about last Monday, also sent George a letter with the money in it. Andrew has been away in the country but returned yesterday, very much worse.3 He came in to see me this morning and it has made me feel quite down-spirited.  He can neither eat nor drink without the greatest agony. He looks very thin and emaciated. I think that if I had the same sickness that I could get the best of it,4 but Andrew seems to put his whole faith in thinking that some Dr can give him something that will set him all straight. I am going to see the Dr with him this P.M. and I also want him to consult Ruggles5 if he will. I fear the worst for Andrew. I wish you was on here. I think that your advice would be a great thing for him. Cant you come. You speak of coming home. I wish you could come just now. Mother is of course much worried about him. Nancy dont seem to amount to much when trouble comes. You would hardly know Andrew. He is thin weak and generally sickly looking  We have heard nothing from Han lately that I know of  Mother and Heyde keep writing letters to one another but what about I know not. At last the great draft has come and gone and I was not one of the elected. I feel thankful  In our ward the screws were put rather tight. out of a little over 3000 names they drew 1056 nearly one in three, while in other wards the proportion was 1 in 6 and 1 in 7 and in the 9th ward 1 in 10. Tom Geere,6 Tom McEvoy,7 Pat Hughes8 two or three in Amermans9 house, were all hit. It seems to have avoided the Water Works, only one or two out of the whole 40 or 50 employed were hit while in Husted & Carls store10 7 out of 10 were taken. If this is the last of it I feel thankful but I believe Uncle Abe left off some on account of Seymour,11 if so I suppose there will be another spurt. However we wont worry till the time comes  The enclosed $5 is from Mr Moses Lane.12 We have what remains of [three?] old Reg. on the hills by our house. They are fine looking and well behaved men, and look as if they would do their duty any where. If you was home you could have grand times talking with them  One Reg. is from Min. one from Mich. and one from Ohio. What do you think about coming to Brooklyn  I think you better, for awhile any way. I wish you would write to Andrew. He seems to feel wonderfully cast down  Aint the Administrat[ion] got wit enough to see that now is the hour to end the war by whipping the rebels. Dont they know enough to know that unless it is ended in 6 months they will have a hard time to get men to fill the places of what they have now. I fear not. Jeff"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00421.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Sep 5, 1863",0.18278253774,"  Brooklyn Wednesday Eve Sept 5/631 Dear Walt, I mailed you a letter to-day (also one from Mother) containing $5 from Mr Lane.2 I write to-night mostly to speak about Andrew. He called at the office this afternoon and I went around with him to see the Dr that he has been doctoring with, a Dr Hull.3 The Dr went through the usual forms and then went on to tell what ailed him ending with giving him a lot of medicines and telling him if that did not cure him to call again in a day or two. From the moment my eye rested on the Dr I made up my mind that he was a fool, a regular Doctor. I dont think that Andrew will get any good from him I had previously made an appointment with Dr Ruggles4 at our office at 4 o'clk, when we returned the Dr was at the office. He talked a long time with Andrew. He told him that it would be perfectly easy to give him a bushel of medicines but that he could think of no medicine that would be likely to do him any good. That he might use alum on his throat but that what would cure him would be to take heart, go in the country again, and to resolve to get well that there was no medicine would do him so much good as a cheerful mind. The Dr thinks that what made him so much worse while away was that he went just as we had a very decided change of weather and that he somehow took cold. I had a long talk with Dr Ruggles this eve, and he tells me that he thinks that the only thing that will permanently help or cure Andrew is for him to go up in the North west and live either by working a little at his trade or something like it. I asked mother to-day to let him have one of her rooms upstairs for him to sleep in and I intended to see if he could not be nursed up and fed. Mattie has, I think very kindly, volunteered to cook and take care of him, and I feel that he could, in a short time, be fixed up so that he could carry out the Dr's idea. But Mother, says that she cant let him have the room, because it will bring his whole family here.5 I tell her to send the whole family back again, but she said, that ""she cant let him have it and that's the end of it."" I think that that she devil the Brown woman6 has a great influence over Mother, for she is nothing like she was a few months ago about such things. Perhaps it would not do any good but I think it would save his life  Another thing, Jess is failing very rapidly indeed,7 he is a mere shadow of what he ought to be and I have not the least doubt in my own mind that it all comes of his not having anything to eat that he can eat. Somehow or another Mother seems to think that she ought to live without spending any money.8 Even to day she has 25 or $30 in the house and I will bet that all they have for dinner will be a quart of tomats and a few cucumbers, and then Mother wonders why Jess vomits up his meals  However Mother gets them just as good or better than she has herself9 "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/uro.00001.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Nathaniel Bloom ,","Sep 5, 1863",0.18278253774,"  Washington |  September 5 1863  Dear Nat1 I wish you were here if only to enjoy the bright & beautiful weather we are having here now for about two weeks   then it is sufficiently cool, & the air buoyant & inspiriting   dear friend, how long it is since we have seen each other, since those pleasant meetings & those hot spiced rums & suppers & our dear friends Gray & Chauncey, & Russell, & Fritschy too, (who for a while at first used to sit so silent,) & Perkins & our friend Raymond   how long it seems   how much I enjoyed it all. What a difference it is with me here   I tell you, Nat, my evenings are frequently spent in scenes that make a terrible difference   for I am still a hospital visitor, there has not passed a day for months (or at least not more than two) that I have not been among the sick & wounded, either in hospitals or down in camp   occasionally here I spend the evenings in hospital   the experience is a profound one, beyond all else, & touches me personally, egotistically, in unprecedented ways   I mean the way often the amputated, sick, sometimes dying soldiers cling & cleave to me as it were as a man overboard to a plank, & the perfect content they have if I will remain with them, sit on the side of the cot awhile, some youngsters often, & caress them &c.   It is delicious to be the object of so much love & reliance, & to do them such good, soothe & pacify torments of wounds &c   You will doubtless see in what I have said the reason I continue so long in this kind of life   as I am entirely on my own hook too. Life goes however quite well with me here   I work a few hours a day at copying &c, occasionally write a newspaper letter, & make enough money to pay my expenses   I have a little room, & live a sort of German or Parisian student life   always get my breakfast in my room, (have a little spirit lamp) & rub on free & happy enough, untrammeled by business, for I make what little employment I have suit my moods   walk quite a good deal, & in this weather the rich & splendid environs of Washington are an unfailing fountain to me   go down the river, or off into Virginia once in a while   All around us here are forts, by the score   great ambulance & teamsters' camps &c   these I go to   some have little hospitals, I visit, &c &c    Dear Nat, your good & friendly letter came safe, & was indeed welcome   I had not thought you had forgotten me, but I wondered why you did not write   What comfort you must take out there in the country, by the river   I have read your letter many times, as I do from all my dear friends & boys there in New York   Perkins lately wrote me a first-rate letter, & I will reply to it soon   I wish to see you all very much   I wish you to give my love to Fritschy, & Fred Gray   I desire both to write to me   Nat, you also, my dear comrade, & tell me all about the boys & everything, all the little items are so good   should Charles Russell visit New York, I wish you to say to him I send him my love   I wish you the same to Perk, & to Kingsley2 & Ben Knower   So good bye, my comrade, till we meet, & God bless you, dear friend    Walt address me care Major Hapgood, Paymaster U S A, cor 15th & F Washington D C    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00145.html," Letter from Mary A. Babbitt to Walt Whitman ,","Sep 6, 1863",0.182918536652," Dear Sir I feel that as my brothers friend you have been neglecred but owing to sickness in the family having been away most of the time I have not had much spare time. Caleb is not quite as well as when I wrore you before. He can not sit up at all. He was very much pleased with your letter & he wishes me to tell you to keep writing if you do not hear from him first. for your letters do him more good than a great deal of medicine. He wants to know if you will be so kind as to ask Dr. Bliss2 what he must do to have his furlough extended if he should not be able to come back then. His head troubles him very much and I fear he will not be able to come back for a long time if ever through he will not own it. Hoping to hear from you again soon I will now close, Yours Respectfully "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00345.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Sep 7, 1863",0.183054535564,"  Camp of 51st Regt N.Y. Vols.near Nicholasville Ky   Sept 7th/63 Dear Mother. Your letter of August 30th with the $10 came all right, and I am sory I put you to the trouble of going to the bank, as we were paid last night, for the Months of July & August and of course I have more money than I know what to do with. Mother I feel quite worried about Andrew, and if his being in the Country benifits his disease, I hope you will send him money (out of what I send you) enough to let him stay there untill he recovers his voice, and his throat gets all right. I should think it would not be very expensive for him to board there, for I suppose of course, he boards at a private house, as I should think he would be much better off, there than at a Hotel. If I was he, I would go to some farmers house where I could have everything comfortable and good. I am very glad Mother, to hear that your health is good, and I hope that you will take things easy and not overwork yourself, and Mother above all things, dont wory and frett yourself, but let things take their course. Hannah you say, has not written to you very lately but I am in hopes that we will soon hear that she is entirely well. Mattie and the babies I am glad to hear, are well and hearty,  Jess you say has not been very well but I hope he is better now. I last wrote you, from Covington where we were haveing first rate easy times and fine liveing. We left there, August 26th marched down to the Depot and took the Cars for this place. We are about 100 miles from Covington and 3 from the village of Nicholasville  We are right among the farmers, so of course we are all right on the grub question, pedlars every day bring in fruit,vegetables, Eggs and all that kind of thing. We have been expecting orders to march every day, and this morning we were ordered to be ready to move at any moment, with 3 days rations in Haversacks, but a few minutes ago the orders to be ready, were countermanded for some reason or another, (I think likely that word has come from Burnside that he is not likely to meet with much resistance at Knoxville)2  It seemed to be the general opinion that we were going down to East Tennessee to reinforce Burnside,  It is some 200 miles from here to where Burnside is, and the men and Officers of our Brigade, dont like the idea of going there much, but as for myself, if it wasent for being so far away from any place where a fellow could get the papers, or hear from home, I think I would as leave go down there as not, although our Regt aint fit to go anywhere, or for any kind of service. My morning report this morning (and for the last 8 days has been the same) was I   Capt, 2 Sergts 2 Corpls, 1 drummer, and 3 privates for duty, and 7 privates Sick in Hospitals,  rather a small company aint it. Capt. Sims3 and two Lieuts that were appointed to go on after conscripts, havent left the Regt. yet, so whether we will get any conscripts or not I dont know. I suppose the draft must be through with in New York & Brooklyn by this time, I wonder how many of my aquaintences have been fortunate enough to draw prizes in Uncle Sams Lottery. I do hope that Jeff has escaped, but I know quite a number that I should be pleased to hear, would have to shoulder a musket, and take their chances with the rest of us. Jeff if you know of any one (that has been drafted) that is anxious to extinguish4 themselvs, tell them to try and get in Co K and if they do right smart, they'l soon get to be Corporels, or something, and get the splendid Salary of $13 a month. Poor devils I fear theyl have rather a hard time in this Regt, for the troops that came out before the big bountys were given, seem to think themselvs a great deal better than the big bounty men (as they call them.)5 Well Mother, what do you all think, of things now,  havent we given the rebs some pretty hard knocks lately, and dont you think we can almost begin to see daylight. Jeff write a fellow a letter once in a while and let me know what your oppinion is of matters and things,  it seems to me if Rosencrans,6 and Burnside are successful, it will be another fine Stroke for our side, and Gillmore7 to at Charleston seems to be getting along well, but its my opinion thers considerable heavy work to be done before we get Charleston, but still I think its bound to come in time and if its only done, and well done, we can afford to wait annother Month or two. I suppose Walt thinks strange of my not writing to him, but as you send my letters around, writing to one is just as good as writing to each one seperately,  You have no idea how much writing I have had to do since we came back from Mississippi  our accounts got very much behind while we were down there and since we came back I have been buisy straitening them out. The Authorities at Washington, are getting very strickt, and we have to make lots of reports, of Clothing, Ordnance, and one thing and another, but I am getting things in pretty good shape, and am very glad to see the head devils at Washington are paying a little attention to their business, for Uncle Sam has been terribly robbed heretofore. Mother I will send you, (by Express) probaly tomorrow $190 or 185 dollars, and remember, I dont want you to be afraid to use it for anything you want.8 I have just heard that Capt Sims starts for New York tomorrow to bring on conscripts, probaly Jeff will see him somewhere about town. Good bye for this timeG W Whitman Mother if you have not sent the second 10 dollars, of course you wont send it but if its on the way before you get this, its all right, let me hear from you as soon as you receive the money. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00787.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Miss Gregg ,","Sep 7, 1863",0.183054535564,"  Sept 7, '63  Dear friend,2 You spoke the other day, partly in fun, about the men being so undemonstrative. I thought I would write you a line, as I hear you leave the hospital tomorrow for a few weeks. Your labor of love & disinterestedness here in Hospital is appreciated. I have invariably heard the Ward A patients speak of you with gratitude, sometimes with enthusiasm. They have their own ways (not outside eclat, but in manly American hearts, however rude, however undemonstrative to you). I thought it would be sweet to your tender & womanly heart, to know what I have so often heard from the soldiers about you, as I sat by their sick cots. I too have learnt to love you, seeing your tender heart, & your goodness to those wounded & dying young men   for they have grown to seem to me as my sons or dear young brothers. As I am poor I cannot make you a present, but I write you this note, dear girl, knowing you will receive it in the same candor & good faith it is written. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00788.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Sep 8, 1863",0.183190534476,"  Washington |  September 8 1863  Dearest mother, I wrote to Jeff Sunday last that his letters sent Sept 3d containing your letter & $5 from Mr Lane had miscarried   this morning when I came down to Major Hapgood's office I found it on my table, so it is all right   singular where it has been all this while as I see the post mark on it is Brooklyn Sept 3 as Jeff said1   Mother, what to do about Andrew I hardly know   as it is I feel about as much pity for you as I do for my poor brother Andrew, for I know you will worry yourself about him all the time   I was in hopes it was only the trouble about the voice &c but I see I was mistaken, & it is probably worse   I know you & Jeff & Mat will do all you can   & will have patience with all (it is not only the sick who are poorly off, but their friends   but it is best to have the greatest forbearance, & do & give &c whatever one can   but you know that, & practice it too, dear mother)2    Mother, if I had the means, O how cheerfully I would give them, whether they availed any thing for Andrew or not   yet I have long made up my mind that money does not amount to so much, at least not so very much, in serious cases of sickness   it is judgment, both in the person himself, & in those he has to do with   & good heart is every thing   (Mother, you remember Theodore Gould,3 how he has stuck it out, though sickness & death has had hold of him as you may say for fifteen years)   but any how I hope we will all do what we can for Andrew   Mother, I think I must try to come home for a month   I have not given up my project of lecturing, I spoke about before,4 but shall put it in practice yet, I feel clear it will succeed enough. (I wish I had some of the money already, it would be satisfaction to me to contribute something to Andrew's necessities, for he must have bread)   I will write to you of course before I come    Mother, I hope you will live better   Jeff tells me you & Jess & Ed live on poor stuff, you are so economical5   Mother, you mustn't do so, as long as you have a cent   I hope you will at least four or five times a week have a steak of beef or mutton, or something substantial for dinner   I have one good meal of that kind every day, or at least five or six days out of the seven   but for breakfast I never have any thing but a cup of tea & some bread or crackers, (first rate tea though with milk & good white sugar)   well I find it is hearty enough   more than half the time I never eat any thing after dinner, & when I do it is only a cracker & cup of tea   Mother, I hope you will not stint yourselves   as to using George's money for your & Jess's & Ed's needful living expenses, I know George would be mad & hurt in his feelings, if he thought you was afraid to   Mother, now have a comfortable time as much as you can, & get a steak occasionally, won't you? I suppose Mat got her letter last Saturday, I sent it Friday   O I was so pleased that Jeff was not drawn,6 & I know how Mat must have felt too, & you too   I have no idea the government will try to draft again, whatever happens   they have carried their point, but have not made much out of it   O how the conscripts & substitutes are deserting down in front, & on their way there   you don't hear any thing about it, but it is incredible   they don't allow it to get in the papers   Mother, I was so glad to get your letter, you must write again   can't you write to-morrow, so I can get it Friday or Saturday?   you know though you wrote more than a week ago I did not get it till this morning   I wish Jeff to write too, as often as he can   mother, I was gratified to hear you went up among the soldiers7   they are rude in appearance, but they know what is decent, and it pleases them much to have folks, even old women, take an interest & come among them   mother, you must go again, & take [Hat]   Well, dear mother, I must close   I am first rate in health, so much better than a month & two mo's ago   my hand has entirely healed   I go to hospital every day, or night   I believe no men ever loved each other as I & some of these poor wounded, sick & dying men love each other   good bye, dearest mother, for present    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyh.00003.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Samuel B. Haskell ,","Sep 9, 1863",0.183326533388,"  Washington |  Sept 9 1863  Dear Sir,1 Your friendly letter acknowledging mine & telling me more of the previous life of Erastus was duly rec'd. Dear boy, death has not blotted out my love for him, the remembrance will be not sad only but sweet. You will either see me or hear of me in Brooklyn at my mother's, Louisa Whitman, Portland avenue, 4th door north of Myrtle, about two miles from Fulton ferry (Myrtle av cars)    Walt Whitman    I send love to Erastus' mother & brothers & sisters    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00789.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Sep 15, 1863",0.18414252686,"  Washington |  September 15 1863  Dear Mother Your letters were very acceptable   one came just as I was putting my last in the post office   I guess they all come right   I have written to Han & George, & sent George papers   Mother, have you heard any thing whether the 51st went on with Burnside, or did they remain as a reserve in Kentucky2   Burnside has managed splendidly so far, his taking Knoxville & all together, it is a first class success   I have known Tennessee union men here in hospital, & I understand it therefore   the region where Knoxville is, is mainly union but the southerners could not exist without it, as it is in their midst   so they determined to pound & kill & crush out the unionists   all the savage & monstrous things printed in the papers about their treatment are true, at least that kind of thing is   as bad as the Irish in the mob treated the poor niggers in New York3   we north[erners] dont understand some things about southerners, it is very strange   the contrast   if I should pick out the most genuine union men & real patriots I have ever met in all my experience, I should pick out two or three Tennesse & Virginia unionists I have met in the hospitals, wounded or sick   one young man I guess I have mentioned to you in my letters, John Barker,4 2d Tennessee Vol. (union)   was a long while a prisoner in secesh prisons in Georgia, & in Richmond   three times the devils hung him up by the heels to make him promise to give up his unionism, once he was cut down for dead   he is a young married man with one child   his little property destroyed, his wife & child turned out   he hunted & tormented, & any moment he could have had any thing if he would join the confederacy   but he was firm as a rock   he would not even take an oath to not fight for either side   they held him about 8 months   then he was very sick, scurvy, & they exchanged him & he came up from Richmond here to hospital, here I got acquainted with him   he is a large, slow, good natured man (somehow made me often think of father), shrewd, very little to say   wouldn't talk to any body but me   his whole thought was to get back & fight, he was not fit to go, but he has gone back to Tennessee   he spent two days with his wife & young one there & then to his regiment   he writes to me frequently, & I to him    he is not fit to soldier, for the rebels have destroyed his health & strength (though he is only 23 or 4), but nothing will keep him from his regiment, & fighting   he is uneducated, but as sensible a young man as I ever met, & understands the whole question   well, mother, Jack Barker is the most genuine Union man I have ever yet met   I asked him once very gravely why he didn't take the southern oath & get his liberty   if he didn't think it was foolish to be so stiff &c   I never saw such a look as he gave me, he thought I was in earnest   the old devil himself couldn't have had put a worse look in his eyes    Mother, I have no doubt there are quite a good many just such men   he is now down there with his regiment, (one of his brothers was killed)   when he fails in strength, he gets the Colonel to detach him to do teamster's duty for a few days, on a march till he recruits his strength   but he always carries his gun with him   in a battle he is always in the ranks   then he is so sensible, such decent manly ways, nothing shallow or mean, (he must have been a giant in health, but now he is weaker, has a cough too)   Mother, can you wonder at my getting so attached to such men, with such love, especially when they show it to me   some of them on their dying beds, & in the very hour of death or just the same when they recover, or partially recover   I never knew what American young men were till I have been in the hospitals    Well, mother, I have got writing on   there is nothing new with me, just the same old thing   as I suppose it is with you there   Mother, how is Andrew, I wish to hear all about him   I do hope he is better, & that it will not prove any thing so bad   I will write to him soon myself, but in the mean time you must tell him to not put so much faith in medicine, drugs I mean, as in the true curative things, namely diet & careful habits, breathing good air, &c   you know I wrote in a former letter5 what is the cause & foundation of the diseases of the throat, & what must be the remedy that goes to the bottom of the thing   sudden attacks &c are to be treated with applications & medicines, but diseases of a seated character are not to be cured by them, only perhaps a little relieved, (& often aggravated, made firmer)    Dearest mother, I hope you yourself are well, & getting along good   About the letter in the Times,6 I see ever since I sent it they have been very crowded with news that must be printed   I think they will give it yet. I hear there is a new paper in Brooklyn,7 or to be one   I wish Jeff would send me some of the first numbers without fail, & a stray Eagle in same parcel to make up the 4 ounces   I was glad to hear Mat was going to write me a good long letter   every letter from home is so good, when one is away   (I often see the men crying in the hospital when they get a letter)   Jeff too I want him to write whenever he can, & not forget the new paper   we are having pleasant weather here, it is such a relief from that awful heat   (I can't think of another such seige without feeling sick at the thought)   Mother, I believe I told you I had written to Mrs. Price   do you see Emma? Are the soldiers still on Fort Greene?8 Well, mother, I have writ quite a letter   it is between 2 & 3 o'clock   I am in Major Hapgood's all alone   from my window I see all the Potomac, & all around Washington   Major & all gone down in the Army to pay troops & I keep house   I am invited to dinner to-day at 4 o'clock at a Mr Boyle's9   I am going   (hope we shall have something good)   dear Mother, I send you my love, & same to Jeff & Mat & all, not forgetting Mannahatta (who I hope is a help & comfort to her grandmother)   well I must scratch off in a hurry, for it is nearly a hour later than I thought   good bye for present, dear mother    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00790.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Bethuel Smith ,","Sep 16, 1863",0.184278525772," Dear Comrade,2 I thought I would write you a few lines & see if they would reach you   I was very much disappointed when I went to Armory that evening to find my dear comrade was gone so sudden & unexpected.3 Thuey, did you take the envelope you had with my address?   if you did why have you not written to me, comrade? What kind of accommodations have you at Carlisle, Thu, & how is the foot? I want to hear all about it   If you get this you must write to me, Thu, you need not mind ceremony   there is no need of ceremony between dear friends for that I hope we are, my loving boy, for all the difference in our ages. There is nothing new with me here   I am very well in health & spirits, & only need some employment, clerkship or something, at fair wages to make things go agreeable with me   no, there is one thing more I need & that is Thuey, for I believe I am quite a fool, I miss you so.4 Well, Thu, it seems as though they were moving again in front   Pleasonton5 has been advancing & fighting   he had all the cavalry moving, had quite a fight last Sunday, driving Stuart6   a good many wounded were brought here very late Monday night 12 o'clock   some 70 to Armory Hospital   all cavalry. In Ward A things go on the same   I dont go as often there as I did   Pyne & I went on quite a spree Monday, went to the mystic Varieties & elsewhere, (saw the ghost as they call it)7   had an oyster supper, ale, &c. quite a time    Well I will not write any more this time   so good bye for present, Thuey, & I pray God bless you, my dear loving comrade, & I hope he will bring us together again   good by, dear boy, from your true friend    Thuey, I enclose an envelope but will write my address here too for future    Thuey, you went away without getting paid, aint you broke? I can send you a little, a few 10ct bills, my darling   You write to me, Thu, just how it is   you need not be afraid, my darling comrade   it is little, but it may be some use   Thuey, you write to me just as you would to your own older brother    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00596.html," Letter from Bethuel Smith to Walt Whitman ,","Sep 17, 1863",0.184414524684," Friend Walt I take my pen in hand to let you now where I am I am at Carlisle barracks in the hospittal  I am getting along verry well now we stop in tents here & it looks verry loansome here to me Write soon Direct your letters to Bethuel Smith, Carlisle Barracks, Pennsylvania "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00597.html," Letter from Bethuel Smith to Walt Whitman ,","Sep 17, 1863",0.184414524684, Dear friend walt I received your kind letter & was verry glad to hear from you & to hear that you was well I left the armory hospittal in somewhat of A hurry I went in the ambulance to the depot & took the Cars north at 11 oclock & we got to philadelphia about 2 oclock there we got some bread & ham & coffee we stayed there till three & then we started to harrisburg we got there about dark & stayed there all night the next day we started for Carlisle we got to Carlisle about 10 in the morning we went in to hospittal tents we have rather poor accomodating her[e] the foot is getting better fast I can get around quite smart on it. I think in A few days I Can put on my boots & not hurt me much of anny  there is lots of fruits here & Cakes pies &c. but it dont do me much good for I have not got any money to buy it with I wish that you would send me A few of them ten cents noats if you pleas it is verry loansome here to me I hope that I shall soon gow to my regiment for I dont like to stay here verry well I would like to see you verry well well walt I dont now as I have anny more to write at present so good by for this time   write soon please 
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00146.html," Letter from Caleb H. Babbitt to Walt Whitman ,","Sep 18, 1863",0.184550523596," Dear Walt I am going to try and write you a few lines this morning, but you must overlook my poor composition also my writing, for I am very weak and my mind is not as it was before I was sun stroke. Walt, this is the first letter I have writen since I came home, but it is by no means the first one I would like to have writen you. Walt (you must excuse one for so adressing you) your letters have been of more value to me than you can imagine, it was not only the words that was writen that don me the good but to know that they come from the bottom of the heart of a true and sympathizing friend.   It does not seem as though I could ever repay you for your kindness toward me both while I was in the Hospital, and since I came home. I often think to myself, what can I do to repay you for your kindness I can think of nothing at present, but sometime I may have an opportunity. your letters are not only a blessing to me but a comfort to my friend to know that I have the sympathy, and good will, of a true friend, like yourself. My Sister and also my friends are very anxious to see and to read your Leaves of Grass and I hope they soon may soon have an oportunity of so doing. I do not wish you to think that I want to beg one of you, but that I wish to buy one of them. Walt, In your letters you wish me to imagine you talking with me when I read them, well I do, and it does very well to think about, but it is nothing compared with the original. I presume you would like to know how I have been since I came home and how I am at the present time. I have been pretty sick. My furlough of forty days is out to day (for to day is Sunday so you will see that it has taken me some time to write this simple epistle). and in days of which time I knew nothing and no friends and also the Doctor gave me up! Dear Walt, it has been Gods blessed will for me to regain my health in a small degree and to day I am able to be proped up in bed and able to write to my true friend and comrade. I am just about the same as I was when you saw me at Armory Hospital. I have to be sure begun with kind friend who have been friends sure but then Walt I would have amused them all for a few days if you could have been with me. how often think I of the many fine chats we have had all alone by ourselves in a loving and peaceful manner and those days will never be forgoten by me, and I am certain they will not by you, In your last you spoke about my furlough, in regard to that my Doctor has got through the proses you spoke of, and I am as anxious to be honorable in regard to that matter, as you are to have me and I hope there may be no trouble. My Sister Mary says when I go back to war she shall write to you. This is what I call a short and simple letter but it is writen by me. I will bid you good by hoping to hear from you soon. I am yours with love and respect "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/med.00318.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Sep 18, 1863",0.184550523596," Here, now, is a specimen army hospital case: Lorenzo Strong,2 Co. A, 9th United States Cavalry (his brother Horace L. Strong,3 Rochester, N. Y.), shot by a shell last Sunday; right leg amputated on the field. Sent up here Monday night, 14th. Seem'd to be doing pretty well till Wednesday noon, 16th, when he took a turn for the worse, and a strangely rapid and fatal termination ensued. Though I had much to do, I staid and saw all. It was a death-picture characteristic of these soldiers' hospitals: the perfect specimen of physique,   one of the most magnificent I ever saw   the convulsive spasms and working of muscles, mouth, and throat. There are two good women nurses, one on each side. The doctor comes in and give him a little chloroform. One of the nurses constantly fans him, for it is fearfully hot. He asks to be rais'd up, and they put him in a half-sitting posture. He call'd for ""Mark""4 repeatedly, half-deliriously, all day. Life ebbs, runs now with the speed of a mill race; his splendid neck, as it lays all open, works still, slightly; his eyes turn back. A religious person coming in offers a prayer, in subdued tones; around the foot of the bed, and in the space of the aisle, a crowd, including two or three doctors, several students, and many soldiers, has silently gather'd. It is very still and warm, as the struggle goes on, and dwindles, a little more, and a little more   and then welcome oblivion, painlessness, death. A pause, the crowd drops away, a white bandage is bound around and under the jaw, the propping pillows are removed, the limpsy head falls down, the arms are softly placed by the side, all composed, all still,   and the broad white sheet is thrown over everything. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00166.html," Letter from Dr. Le Baron Russell to Walt Whitman ,","Sep 21, 1863",0.184958520332,"  Boston Sept 21st 1863.  My dear sir, I have been much interested in a letter from you to Mr. Redpath,2 written some weeks ago, which I have lately seen, & I am very glad to send you the inclosed check to be used for the benefit of our noble ""boys"" in the hospitals, at your discretion.  I have seen much of the hospitals myself, & I know how much good your friendly sympathy must do them, & also that even a slight pecuniary aid is sometimes very acceptable to them in their forlorn condition. Of the enclosed check, ten dollars of the amount is contributed by my sister, Mrs. G.W. Briggs of Salem,3 to whom I read your letter, & ten dollars by my friend Edward Atkinson.4  The balance I give to the boys with great pleasure, & I will very gladly give more hereafter, when I hear from you of the receipt of this & find that more is needed. As your letter is not of a very late date, I do not feel certain that your address may be the same as at the time you wrote.  Please inform me how this is, as I hope to be able to send you more from other friends. I hope you will continue in your good work, as I am sure from your letter, & from what my friend, Mr. Emerson, says of his own acquaintance with you, that your visits must give great comfort to our poor suffering men.  I am, with much regard, Very Truly Yours, L. B. Russell  Walt Whitman Esq.Washington. Please addressDr. L. B. Russell34 Mt. Vernon St.Boston.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00346.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Thomas Jefferson Whitman ,","Sep 22, 1863",0.185094519244,"  Camp Nelson, near HickmansBridge Ky.   Sept 22d 1863 Brother Jeff, Your letter of Sept 5th came all right, money and all. I felt quite anxious about Andrew, who you know was quite bad when you wrote, but since then I have had a letter from Walt, saying, he was much better, and I hope by takeing first rate care of himself he will soon be entirely well. Mother too was not well when you wrote, but Walt, says when he last heard from her (Sept 12th) she was first rate. Jess he said was not well, but I hope it is nothing serious, and by this time I hope they are all comeing around right again. Jeff you see by the heading of this we have changed our camp since I last wrote,  we are now about 8 miles from Nicholasville, near the Kentucky River, and are haveing tip top times here, we have a splendid camp, plenty to eat, not much to do, first rate quarters, get the Cincinnati papers every day, and I am getting fat and lazy, so you see what terrible hard times we poor Sogers have.  When we first came here our Brigade was split up and sent to different parts of the State, and as our regt. was pretty well used up at that time, we were left here to do guard duty. This is a Milatary Post and is splendidly fortified (both naturally and otherwise) and I think 5000 men could easily hold it against six times their number. We have quite large Hospital and Convalesent Camps here, and we have to guard about 200 prisoners, (most of them waiting Court Martial for Desertion, but some are citazens charged with various offences) and it looks at present, as if we might be kept here some time, but of course there's no telling, and if we are ordered to pull up stakes and move on, why I shant grumble. About 2000 of the prisoners that Burnside took at Cumberland Gap, passed here the other day, on their way to Louisville  (Jeff that was rather a slick thing, old Burny did, up there  wasent it,  he fooled the rebs that time nicely)2  they were rather a good looking set of men but very dirty, and badly uniformed,  some of them seemed to talk pretty spunky, but the most of them seemed to think theyed had about pie enough, We have rather bad news from Rosecrans this morning, but I hope that it is nothing very serious, for I expected that Rosey was going to strike them a mighty blow down there, and if he has met with any very serious reverse it will sett things back a long while. It seems to me that he should have remained at Chattanooga untill he had been sufficently reinforced to have gone right down through Georgia and drove everything before him. Gillmore3 too seems to have a pretty hard time, down at Charleston, but still I dont know but he is getting along about as well as could be expected, considering what he has to contend with and if he only makes a sure thing of it in the end, a few days, or weeks, time wont make much differance. Jeff Capt. Sims4 of our regt is now in Brooklyn, after conscripts,  have you seen him, If you would like to see him, I think you would be likely to hear from him at Tom Deans Billiard Saloon, at Montague Hall, as Dean was a member of Sims old Co B 13th Regt. Mother I wrote you a letter about 2 weeks ago, and at the same time I sent you some money by Express, (did you get it)5 and have been expecting every day, for the last 4 or 5 days, to hear from you. Mother I hope you are takeing things easy, for there is no kind of use in your working and fretting when you can just as well hire some one to do the work for you (and the fretting to for that matter)  When you write to Walt, Mother, tell him if we stay here this winter I shall certainly expect him to come down here and stay a month or two, and whenever you hear from Hannah dont fail to write and let me know how she is getting along, and remember Mother, whenever you want anything (Clothing or anything else) dont be backward about spending our money. Well Mattie, how are you getting along and how are the babies, (I supose it wont do to call Hattie a baby much longer)  I often think of you all and wonder how you are getting along  Have you got lots of nice eatables (preserved pine apples and sich) stowed away for this winter  If I can get a chance to come home this winter wont I make the good things fly, and Mattie how about that bottle of wine, is it all safe yet. write to me  all of you. Direct to the regt. at this place and letters will come all right even if we have moved from here. Good Night all,G. W. Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00422.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Sep 22, 1863",0.185094519244,"  Brooklyn 22nd Sept. 1863 Dear brother Walt, The enclosed $25 is from my old friend Joseph P. Davis1 who is Engineering down in Peru. Although he is far away yet he does not forget home. I have written him in some of my letters what you were doing, with short extracts from your letters. Well Walt it looks as if we had met rather a bad reverse in the West. If Rosecrans2 is whipped I should hardly think that the United States was large enough to contain the infernal quacks that administer the military arm of our government. I suppose their is at least 30 000 men nibbling around in Kansas and other parts west. Matters that would tumble of their own weight if the army in front of Rosecrans was thouroughly whipped. Tis awful to think of. I mailed you a letter from George a few days since, did you get it. Mother is abt the same as usual. I think she fails somewhat. I suppose not more than we must expect however. Mattie and the babies are quite well. Hattie is getting to be quite a girl, and the little one is also getting to be quite a youngster. Jess is abt the same, he is not well. He needs good living more than anything I think. Andrew I suppose Mother wrote you about  I think that it is unfortunate that he should be so humbuged by the ""Italian Dr.""3 but I suppose he would not otherwise have tried to get well at all  The Dr. requirs him to pay $180 in 3 installments in advance. He has paid $46 and is now living his 15 days at the ""Foriegn Dr's"" as a prepairing course, then he is to take certain baths. The whole thing in my opinion is one of the biggest of humbugs. However if Andrew believs in it I suppose it is best to bolster him up in his beliefs. I shall write you again [in] a few days sending you some more money. till then good bye affectionately yours Thomas J. Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00423.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Sep 24, 1863",0.185366517068,"  Brooklyn 24th Sept 1863 Dear brother Walt, The enclosed $25 is from Joseph P. Davis1 making with the $25 sent you last Tuesday $50 from Jo. Now I will give you a statement of the whole affair  Last Monday I received a letter from W. S. Davis,2 Jo's brother [at?] Worcester, Mass. saying that he had received a letter from Joe directing him to send me $70. $50 to be sent to you and $20 to be expended in buying a present for young ""Joe Probasco.""3 The $25 I sent you on Tuesday I borrowed of Mr Lane4 so that I might send it immediately and to day I received a check for the $70. I have paid Mr Lane the $25 and according to Jo's direction send you the remaind[er] of the $50. Jo's brother, W. S. Davis, is a lawer, in Worcester,5 with a large number of acquaintances and I think liberal. I wrote him a note acknowledging the recipt of the money and telling him that you would write him a long letter,6 detailing the manner, style, &c &c of your dispensing the money (like those you used to write us)  ask him to show it to his friends and get them to give what they can and have him send it to you  He writes me that he wants you to acknowledge the receipt of the money, and also that he would much like to hear from you. I consider it an opportunity for you to make this $50 the father of 100's without in the least seeming like one asking for it I certainly think Mother is following a mistaken notion of ecomony.7 I think the only decent meals that any of them have had for three months is what they have eaten with Mat and I. As regards Mother I am perfectly willing she should live with us all [the time?] (that is to eat, I mean) but Ed and Jess I cant stand entirely. Dont understand me that they do eat with us, for they dont as much perhaps as they used to. Mother certainly does not, not as much as we wish her to, for we always call her. I notice however that when Jess does eat with us that he does not throw up his victuals. And Andrew too, his trouble comes as much from his mode of living and sleeping  His room for sleeping is without ventilation. the window is coverd with posiness tress. He has no nice little things, [or] all nourishment fixed for him to eat, such as I intended Mat should fix for him. I dont think myself that we have any thing to do with Nancy, she is able enough to make a good living both for herself and the children, if she wasnt so dam'd lazy. Walt I wish you was home for awhile. I think you would see and think as I do. I have scribbled this to you just as I have thought for a day or two. Ruggles8 says that Andrew cannot be a well man in this town, to be sure even going away may not help him, but he thinks and is almost certain that it will. I wish if you dont come on you would write me also write Andrew. Oh you dont know how down spirited he is Jeff."
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00598.html," Letter from Bethuel Smith to Walt Whitman ,","Sep 28, 1863",0.185910512716, Dear Friend I now sit to write to you I hope this will find you in good spirits & well I received your letters & was verry glad to get them & always shall be I am well the toe is getting along verry fast I ware my boots A little everry day I think in A few days I shall be able to join my regiment I hope so anyway for it is so loansome here to me I walk around considerable & the more I walk around the more loansom it is to me the buildings are all burnt & it looks dessolate but they are repareing them again Carlisle is miserabler than Washington for women I think friend walt I should like to Come & see you verry much I hope that I shall join my regimint soon & then shall be near Washington where I Can come & see you Dear friend I dont now as I have anny more to write good by & may god bless you 
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00791.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Sep 29, 1863",0.186046511628,"  Washington |  Sept 29 1863  Dear Mother, Well here I sit this forenoon in a corner by the window in Major Hapgood's office   all the Potomac & Maryland & Virginia hills in sight   writing my Tuesday letter to you, dearest mother   Major has gone home to Boston on sick leave, & only the clerk & me occupy the office & he not much of the time   at the present moment there are two wounded officers come in to get their pay, one has crutches   the other is drest in the light blue uniform of the invalid corps   way up here in the 5th floor it is pretty hard scratching for cripples & very weak men to journey up here   often they come up here very weary & faint, & then find out they can't get their money, some red tape hitch, & the poor soldiers look so disappointed   it always makes me feel bad    Mother, we are having perfect weather here nowadays, both night & day   the nights are wonderful, for the last three nights as I have walked home from the hospital pretty late, it has seemed to me like a dream, the moon & sky ahead of any thing I ever see before   Mother, do you hear any thing from George, I wrote to him yesterday & sent him your last letter & Jeff's enclosed   I shall send him some papers to-day   I send papers quite often   (why hasn't Jeff sent me the Union1 with my letter in   I want much to see it, & whether they have misprinted it.) Mother, I dont think the 51st has been in any of the fighting we know of down there yet   what is to come of course nobody can tell   As to Burnside I suppose you know he is among his friends, & I think this quite important, for such the main body of East Tennesseans are, & are far truer Americans any how than the Copperheads of the North   the Tennesseans will fight for us too   Mother, you have no idea how the soldiers, sick &c. (I mean the American ones to a man) all feel about the copperheads, they never speak of them without a curse & I hear them say with an air that shows they mean it, they would shoot them sooner than they would a rebel   Mother, the troops from Meade's army are passing through here night & day, going west & so down to reinforce Rosecrans I suppose   the papers are not permitted to mention it, but it is so   two Army Corps I should think have mostly passed   they go through night & day   I hear the whistle of the locomotive screaming away any time at night when I wake up, & the rumbling of the trains    Mother dear, you must write to me soon, & so must Jeff   I thought Mat was going to send me a great long letter, I am always looking for it, I hope it will be full of every thing about family matters & doings, & how every body really is   I go to Major's box three or four times a day   I want to hear also about Andrew, & indeed about every one of you & every thing, nothing is too trifling, nothing uninteresting. O mother, who do you think I got a letter from, two or three days ago   Aunt Fanny, Ansel's mother   She sent it by a young man, a wounded soldier who has been home to Farmingdale on furlough, & lately returned   she writes a first rate letter, Quaker all over2   I shall answer it   She says Mary & Ansel & all are well   I have rec'd another letter from Mrs Price, she has not good health, I am sorry for her from my heart, she is a good noble woman, no better kind   Mother, I am in the hospitals as usual   I stand it better the last three weeks than ever before   I go among the worst fevers & wounds with impunity   I go among the small pox, &c just the same   I feel to go without apprehension, & so I go   nobody else goes, & as the darkey said there at Charleston when the boat run on a flat & the reb sharpshooters were peppering them, somebody must jump in de water (& shove the boat off)    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00852.html," Letter from Margaret S. Curtis to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 1, 1863",0.186318509452,"  Boston October 1, 1863  Mr. Whitman: It was with exceeding interest that Mr. Curtis and I listened to the letter you lately wrote to Dr. Russell,2 which came to us through my sister, Miss Stevenson. Its effect was to make us desire to aid you in the good work you are engaged in, caring for the sick and wounded soldiers.  We inclose thirty dollars and feel very glad to have the opportunity to minister to their comfort.  Mr. Curtis would send it anonymously, but I think it is pleasant to know where one had excited an interest, and in asking you to acknowledge its receipt, my wish is most to be sure that it has reached its destination.  With regard, I am, Margaret S. Curtis  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00792.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to William S. Davis ,","Oct 1, 1863",0.186318509452," The noble gift of your brother Joseph P Davis2 of [$20?] for the aid of the wounded, sick, dying soldiers here came safe to hand   it is being sacredly distributed to them   part of it has been so already   I may another time give you special cases   I go every day or night in the hospitals a few hours    As to physical comforts, I attempt to have something   generally a lot of   something harmless & not too expensive to go round to each man, even if it is nothing but a good home-made biscuit to each man, or a couple of spoonfuls of blackberry preserve, I take a ward or two of an evening & two more next evening &c   as an addition to his supper   sometimes one thing, sometimes another, (judgment of course has to be carefully used)   then, after such general round, I fall back upon the main thing, after all, the special cases, alas, too common   those that need special attention, some little delicacy, some trifle   very often, far above all else, soothing kindness wanted   personal magnetism   poor boys, their sick hearts & wearied & exhausted bodies hunger for the sustenance of love or their deprest spirits must be cheered up   I find often young men, some hardly more than children in age yet   so good, so sweet, so brave, so decorous, I could not feel them nearer to me if my own sons or young brothers   Some cases even I could not tell any one, how near to me, from their yearning ways & their sufferings   it is comfort & delight to me to minister to them, to sit by them   some so wind themselves around one's heart, & will be kissed at parting at night just like children   though veterans of two years of battles & camp life    I always carry a haversack with some articles most wanted   physical comforts are a sort of basis   I distribute nice large biscuit, sweet-crackers, sometimes cut up a lot of peaches with sugar, give preserves of all kinds, jellies, &c. tea, oysters, butter, condensed milk, plugs of tobacco, (I am the only one that doles out this last, & the men have grown to look to me)   wine, brandy, sugar, pickles, letter-stamps, envelopes & note-paper, the morning papers, common handkerchiefs & napkins, undershirts, socks, dressing gowns, & fifty other things3   I have lots of special little requests. Frequently I give small sums of money   shall do so with your brother's contribution   the wounded are very frequently brought & lay here a long while without a cent. I have been here & in front 9 months doing this thing, & have learned much   two-thirds of the soldiers are from 15 to 25 or 6 years of age   lads of 15 or 16 more frequent than you have any idea   seven-eighths of the Army are Americans, our own stock   the foreign element in the army is much overrated, & is of not much account anyhow   As to these hospitals, (there are dozens of them in [&] around Washington) [there] are no hospitals you must understand like the diseased half-foreign collections under that name common at all times in cities   in these here, the noblest, cleanest stock I think of the world, & the most precious.4 "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00167.html," Letter from Le Baron Russell to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 4, 1863",0.186726506188,"  Boston Oct 4th 1863.  My dear sir, I was very glad to hear of the receipt of the check I sent you & to know that it had already begun to do some good. I like very much your plan of aiding chiefly those frequent cases of suffering among the poor & unfriended young men of whom I have myself seen so many in the hospitals   I am sure you must be doing infinite good to the bodies & souls of these poor youths so far away from all other sympathies & friendships, & who now just seek a friend & comforter as few are to them. The hospitals are too cold   too regardless of human feeling,   treating our brave volunteers too much like more professional fighters not mere like thinking & suffering men. It is bad policy, as well as inhumanity, to treat them so. The effects of the iron will of our hospitals is discouraging to the hearts of our men, & I fear it does more to prevent volunteer enlistments than all other causes   The difficulty of getting discharges & furloughs, even in cases clearly demanding such indulgence, is very great & seems to increase rather than to diminish   I wish some more humane rules could be established. I have tried to prevail upon those in authority to ameliorate the system, but without effect    I have received twenty dollars here to be forwarded to you, ($10 cash from my friends Henry Lewis of Boston, & Benj. H Silsbee2 of Salem,) but I retain it for a few days hoping to add more to it   Meanwhile I have sent your letter to our friend Miss Hannah E. Stevenson3, (whom you may remember as an ardent worker in one of the Georgetown Hospitals,) who will read it to some of her friends. She informs me that her sister Mrs. Chs P. Curtis has written to you & sent aid for the boys. She was much interested in your account of them. It will give me great pleasure to hear from you again     I am very truly yours L B Russell.  Mr Walt Whitman Washington D.C.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00793.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Margaret S. Curtis ,","Oct 4, 1863",0.186726506188,"  Washington, | Armory Sq Hospital,  Sunday evening Oct 4  Dear Madam,2 Your letter reached me this forenoon with the $30 for my dear boys, for very dear they have become to me, wounded & sick here in the government hospitals   As it happens I find myself rapidly making acknowledgment of your welcome letter & contribution from the midst of those it was sent to aid   & best by a sample of actual hospital life on the spot, & of my own goings around the last two or three hours   As I write I sit in a large pretty well-fill'd ward by the cot of a lad3 of 18 belonging to Company M, 2d N Y cavalry, wounded three weeks ago to-day at Culpepper   hit by fragment of a shell in the leg below the knee   a large part of the calf of the leg is torn away, (it killed his horse)   still no bones broken, but a pretty large ugly wound   I have been writing to his mother at Comac, Suffolk co. N Y   She must have a letter just as if from him, about every three days   it pleases the boy very much   has four sisters   them also I have to write to occasionally   Although so young he has been in many fights & tells me shrewdly about them, but only when I ask him   He is a cheerful good-natured child   has to lie in bed constantly, his leg in a box   I bring him things   he says little or nothing in the way of thanks   is a country boy   always smiles & brightens much when I appear   looks straight in my face & never at what I may have in my hand for him   I mention him for a specimen as he is within reach of my hand & I can see that his eyes have been steadily fixed on me from his cot ever since I began to write this letter. There are some 25 or 30 wards, barracks, tents, &c in this hospital   This is ward C, has beds for 60 patients, they are mostly full   most of the other principal wards about the same   so you see a U S general hospital here is quite an establishment   this has a regular police, armed sentries at the gates & in the passages &c.   & a great staff of surgeons, cadets, women & men nurses &c &c. I come here pretty regularly because this hospital receives I think the worst cases & is one of the least visited   there is not much hospital visiting here now   it has become an old story   the principal here, Dr Bliss, is a very fine operating surgeon4   sometimes he performs several amputations or other operations of importance in a day   amputations, blood, death are nothing here   you will see a group absorbed [in] playing cards up at the other end of the room. I visit the sick every day or evening   sometimes I stay far in the night, on special occasions. I believe I have not missed more than two days in past six months. It is quite an art to visit the hospitals to advantage. The amount of sickness, and the number of poor, wounded, dying young men are appalling. One often feels lost, despondent, his labors not even a drop in the bucket   the wretched little he can do in proportion. I believe I mentioned in my letter to Dr Russell5 that I try to distribute something, even if but the merest trifle, all round, without missing any, when I visit a ward, going round rather rapidly   & then devoting myself, more at leisure, to the cases that need special attention. One who is experienced may find in almost any ward at any time one or two patients or more, who are at that time trembling in the balance, the crisis of the wound, recovery uncertain, yet death also uncertain. I will confess to you, madam, that I think I have an instinct & faculty for these cases. Poor young men, how many have I seen, & known   how pitiful it is to see them   one must be calm & cheerful, & not let on how their case really is, must stop much with them, find out their idiosyncrasies   do any thing for them   nourish them, judiciously give the right things to drink   bring in the affections, soothe them, brace them up, kiss them, discard all ceremony, & fight for them, as it were, with all weapons. I need not tell your womanly soul that such work blesses him that works as much as the object of it. I have never been happier than in some of these hospital ministering hours. It is now between 8 & 9, evening   the atmosphere is rather solemn here to-night   there are some very sick men here   the scene is a curious one   the ward is perhaps 120 or 30 feet long   the cots each have their white musquito curtains   all is quite still   an occasional sigh or groan   up in the middle of the ward the lady nurse sits at a little table with a shaded lamp, reading   the walls, roof, &c are all whitewashed   the light up & down the ward from a few gas-burners about half turned down   It is Sunday evening   to-day I have been in the hospital, one part or another, since 3 o'clock   to a few of the men, pretty sick, or just convalescing & with delicate stomachs or perhaps badly wounded arms, I have fed their suppers   partly peaches pealed, & cut up, with powdered sugar, very cool & refreshing   they like to have me sit by them & peal them, cut them in a glass, & sprinkle on the sugar   (all these little items may-be may interest you). I have given three of the men, this afternoon, small sums of money   I provide myself with a lot of bright new 10ct & 5ct bills, & when I give little sums of change I give the bright new bills. Every little thing even must be taken advantage of   to give bright fresh 10ct bills, instead of any other, helps break the dullness of hospital life    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00168.html," Letter from Le Baron Russell to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 6, 1863",0.186998504012,"  Boston Oct 6th 1863.  My dear sir, Having an opportunity to send by Miss Lowe the $20. From H. Lee, & B. H Silsbee2 of which I wrote you, I am very glad to take advantage of it    You will find the amt enclosed   Hoping that we may be able to send you more hereafter,  I am very truly yours L B Russell.  Walt Whitman Esq.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00869.html," Letter from Hannah E. Stevenson to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 6, 1863",0.186998504012," Sir: I took from Dr. Russell2 your letter to Mr. Redpath,3 to stir some warm hearts to aid you in your blessed work among our sick and wounded boys.  My sister, Mrs. Charles P. Curtis, has already written you.  Her husband's words and her own, your touching words coined into gold or greenbacks.  I inclose you to-day thirty dollars, the result of an application to my friends, the Misses Wigglesworth.4  Respectfully, Hannah E. Stevenson  80 Temple St   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00794.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Oct 6, 1863",0.186998504012,"  Washington |  October 6 1863  Dearest mother Your letter & George's came safe   dear brother George, one dont more than get a letter from him before you want to hear again, especially as things are looking pretty stormy down that way   but, mother, I rather lean to the opinion that the 51st is still in Kentucky at or near where George last wrote,1 but of course that is only my guess   I send George papers often & occasionally letters   mother, I sent him enclosed your letter before the last, though you said in it not to tell him how much money he had home, as you wanted to surprise him, but I sent it   Mother, I think Rosecrans & Burnside will be too much for the rebels down there yet   I myself make a great acc't of Burnside being in the midst of friends, & such friends too   they will fight & fight up to the handle & kill somebody   (it seems as if it was coming to that pass where we will either have to destroy or be destroyed)    Mother, I wish you would write soon after you get this, or Jeff or Mat must, & tell me about Andrew, if there is any thing different with him   I think about him every day & night. I believe I must come home even if it is only for a week   I want to see you all very much   Mother, I know you must have a good deal to harrass & trouble you, I dont mean about Andrew personally, for I know you would feel to give your life to save his, & do any thing to nourish him, but about the children & Nancy   but, mother, you must not let any thing chafe you, & you must not be squeamish about saying firmly at times not to have little Georgy2 too much to trouble you (poor little fellow, I have no doubt he will be a pleasanter child when he grows older) & while you are pleasant with Nancy, you must be sufficiently plain with her   only, mother, I know you will & Jeff & Mat will too be invariably good to Andrew, & not mind his being irritable at times, it is his disease, & then his temper is naturally fretful, but it is such a misfortune to have such sickness, & always do any thing for him that you can in reason   Mat, my dear sister, I know you will, for I know your nature is to come out a first class girl in times of trouble & sickness, & do any thing    Mother, you dont know how pleased I was to read what you wrote about little sis,3 I want to see her so bad I dont know what to do, I know she must be just the best young one on Long Island   but I hope I will not be understood as meaning any slight or disrespect to Miss Hat, nor to put her nose out of joint, because Uncle Walt I hope has heart & gizzard big enough for both his little neices, & as many more as the Lord may send    Mother, I am writing this in Major Hapgood's office as usual   I am all alone to-day   Major is still absent, unwell, & the clerk is away somewhere   O how pleasant it is here, the weather I mean, & other things too for that matter   I still occupy my little room 394 L st., get my own breakfast there, had good tea this morning, & some nice biscuit, (yesterday morning & day before had peaches cut up)   My friends the O'Connors that I wrote about re-commenced cooking the 1st of this month, (they have been as usual in summer taking their meals at a family hotel near by.) Saturday they sent for me to breakfast & Sunday I eat dinner with them, very good dinner, roast beef, lima beans, good potatoes &c. They are truly friends to me   I still get my dinner at a restaurant usually. I have a very good plain dinner, which is the only meal of any acc't I make during the day, but it is just as well, for I would be in danger of getting fat on the least encouragement, & I have no ambition that way. Mother, it is lucky I like Washington in many respects, & that things are upon the whole pleasant personally, for every day of my life I see enough to make one's heart ache with sympathy & anguish here in the hospitals, & I do not know as I could stand it, if it was not counterbalanced outside   it is curious   when I am present at the most appaling things, deaths, operations, sickening wounds (perhaps full of maggots), I do not fail, although my sympathies are very much excited, but keep singularly cool   but often, hours afterward, perhaps when I am home, or out walking alone, I feel sick & actually tremble, when I recal the thing & have it in my mind again before me    Mother, did you see my letter in the N Y Times of Sunday Oct 4?4 That was the long delayed letter   Mother, I am very sorry Jeff did not send me the Union with my letter in5   I wish very much he would do so yet, & always when I have a letter in a paper I would like to have one sent   if you take the Union, send me some once in a while   Mother, was it Will Brown sent me those? tell him if so I was much obliged, & if he or Mr & Mrs Brown6 take any interest in hearing my scribblings, mother, you let 'em read the letters of course   O I must not close without telling you the highly important intelligence that I have cut my hair & beard   since the event, Rosecrans, Charleston, &c &c have among my acquaintances been hardly mentioned, being insignificant themes in comparison   Jeff, my dearest brother, I have been going to write you a good gossipy letter for two or three weeks past, will try [to] do it yet, so it will reach you for Sunday reading   so good bye, brother Jeff, & good by for present, Mother dear, & all, & tell Andrew he must not be discouraged yet    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00424.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 7, 1863",0.187134502924,"  Brooklyn Oct 7th /63 My dear Walt, The enclosed $10 is from Mr James P. Kirkwood1 for the use of the Hospital soilders  I will mail you another letter with some more money to-morrow How goes things with you, Walt? What about coming home? I have not written you very lately, I have been so very busy. Mother and the rest are about the same. Andrew does not get better. I fear than Andrew will never get better. He looks very bad rather a painful case. I yesterday wrote you a letter and enclosed some money from myself, after thinking the matter over I destroyed the letter and shall give the money to Andrew, did I not do right In acknowledging the receipt of money from me please state the amount but not who from as I dont want them to know that I dont send any myself but I honestly think when I possibly can give any thing that I ought to give it to Andrew. All the rest of us are the same as usual  Mattie and the babies are very well. the little one is growing finely and is getting to be quite a youngster  Hattie is growing up well  I often wish you was at home  I think you would enjoy her very much and it would be beneficial to her  Jess is about the same. He is not very strong, but does not get worse I think. I should like to have one of the old fashioned letters from you, and cannot you send me the letter to go to Davis2 before the 12th as the steamer goes out then Did you write to Wm Davis at Worcester, if not wont you do so,3 and if you have leasure write to Mr Kirkwood sometime if you will4  I will give you his address  Mr Kirkwood is travelling around the eastern states on horseback and is not very well. I think a letter from you would do him good. Let me hear from you. I will write you again to-morrow. Affectionately Thos. J. Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00425.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 8, 1863",0.187270501836,"  Brooklyn Oct. 8th/63 My dear Walt I yesterday wrote you1 enclosing the $10 from Mr Kirkwood2 for the use of the ""sogers""  The enclosed $8 is contributed thus   $5  by Moses Lane3 $2  ""  J. D. Martin4 ""1  ""  Henry Carlow5   In my yesterdays letter I said something about the acknowledgement of the moneys  I fear that I did not express myself so that you could understand me  I do not want to get the credit of sending money that I dont send,   I want to show your letters to those that contribute so that they may see that all the money they give me is duly sent and appropriated and as I proposed this regular contribution I dont like to have them know that I am the first one to back out, but as I said yesterday I think that whatever I possibly can do I ought to do for Andrew, that whatever I can give ought to be given to him. Andrew is in a bad fix, he is hardly able to get around and has no money  Mat sends him at least one good meal a day. He generally comes and spends an hour or two at the house. I had quite a talk with Dr Ruggles6 yesterday about him. The Dr says that had he gone to the interior when he first advised him to in the summer he would have stood a fair chance of getting well, but that now he thinks that it is more than wicked to take his money and make beleive to cure him for in his opinion that is almost impossible  I think that it is about so. It makes one feel rather bad when you think of it dont it  Ruggles says that his lungs are much diseased. I wish that you could come home for a short time and see Andrew  Mother and the rest are quite well. This morning mother is not quite so well,   a bad cold   yesterday Jess was sick all day   there is no doubt Walt in my mind but that Mother is doing injury both to herself and Jess by her economy  they do not have enough good things to eat, and they are both of the age that they require it. I have spoken of it till I have tired and it dont accomplish any-thing. I wish you was at home to give a little advice now and then. Walt I often think of you wonder what you are about and how you get along. Do you have any employment there. You must often meet Brooklyn people there  I understand that they liked your letter at the Times. Twas superior to the Brooklyn one I'm sure.7 Walt let me hear from you   a letter that I can show Lane &c  They like to read your letters  Mattie and the babies are well and send their love. Ruggles always tells me to remember him to you. Probasco8 complains that he has not heard from you since he sent you some money, fears that it did not reach you  I will write again soon Thos J. Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00795.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Hugo Fritsch ,","Oct 8, 1863",0.187270501836," Dear Hugo.2 I don't know why I have delayed so long as a month to write to you, for your affectionate & lively letter of September 5th gave me as much pleasure as I ever received from correspondence   I read it even yet & have taken the liberty to show it to one or two persons I knew would be interested. Dear comrade, you must be assured that my heart is much with you in New York, & with my other dear friends, your associates   &, my dear, I wish you to excuse me to Fred Gray, & to Perk, & Ben Knower, for not yet writing to them, also to Charley Kingsley, should you see him   I am contemplating a tremendous letter to my dear comrade Frederickus, which will make up for deficiencies   my own comrade Fred, how I should like to see him & have a good heart's time with him, & a mild orgie, just for a basis, you know, for talk & interchange of reminiscences & the play of the quiet lambent electricity of real friendship   O Hugo, as my pen glides along writing these thoughts, I feel as if I could not delay coming right off to New York & seeing you all, you & Fred & Bloom, & every body   I want to see you, to be within hand's reach of you, & hear your voices, even if only for one evening, for only three hours   I want to hear Perk's fiddle   I want to hear Perk himself, (& I will humbly submit to drink to the Church of England)   I want to be with Bloom, (that wretched young man who I hear continually adorns himself outwardly, but I hear nothing of the interior &c)3 & I want to see Charley Russell, & if [when?] he is in N. Y. you see him I wish you to say that I sent him my love, particular, & that he & Fred & Charles Chauncey remain a group of itself in the portrait-gallery of my heart & mind yet & forever   for so it happened for our dear times, when we first got acquainted, (we recked not of them as they passed,) were so good, so hearty, those friendship-times, our talk, our knitting together, it may be a whim, but I think nothing could be better or quieter & more happy of the kind   & is there any better kind in life's experiences? Dear comrade, I still live here as a hospital missionary after my own style, & on my own hook   I go every day or night without fail to some of the great government hospitals   O the sad scenes I witness   scenes of death, anguish, the fevers, amputations, friendlessness, of hungering & thirsting young hearts, for some loving presence   such noble young men as some of these wounded are   such endurance, such native decorum, such candor   I will confess to you, dear Hugo, that in some respects I find myself in my element amid these scenes   shall I not say to you that I find I supply often to some of these dear suffering boys in my presence & magnetism that which nor doctors nor medicines nor skill nor any routine assistance can give? Dear Hugo, you must write to me often as you can, & not delay it, your letters are very dear to me. Did you see my newspaper letter in N Y Times of Sunday Oct 4? About my dear comrade Bloom, is he still out in Pleasant Valley? Does he meet you often? Do you & the fellows meet at Gray's or any where? O Hugo, I wish I could hear with you the current opera   I saw Devereux4 in the N Y papers of Monday announced for that night, & I knew in all probability you would be there   tell me how it goes, and about the principal singers   only dont run away with that theme, & occupy too much of your letter with it   but tell me mainly about all my dear friends, & every little personal item, & what you all do, & say &c. I am excellent well. I have cut my beard short, & hair ditto: (all my acquaintances are in anger & despair & go about wringing their hands). My face is all tanned & red. If the weather is moist or has been lately, or looks as if it thought of going to be, I perambulate this land in big army boots outside & up to my knees. Then around my majestic brow, around my well-brimmed felt hat   a black & gold cord with acorns. Altogether the effect is satisfactory. The guards as I enter or pass places often salute me. All of which I tell, as you will of course take pride in your friend's special & expanding glory. Fritschy, I am writing this in Major Hapgood's office, fifth story, by a window that overlooks all down the city, & over & down the beautiful Potomac, & far across the hills & shores for many a mile. We have had superb weather lately, yes for a month   it has just rained, so the dust is provided for, (that is the only thing I dread in Washington, the dust, I dont mind the mud). It is now between one & two o'clock Thursday afternoon. I am much alone in this pleasant far-up room, as Major is absent sick, & the clerk lays off a good deal. From three to five hours a day or night I go regularly among the sick, wounded, dying young men. I am enabled to give them things, food &c. There are very few visitors, amateurs, now. It has become an old story. The suffering ones cling to me, poor children, very close. I think of coming to New York quite soon to stay perhaps three weeks, then sure return here. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00796.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Hannah E. Stevenson ,","Oct 8, 1863",0.187270501836,"  Washington  October 8 | 1863  Dear friend2 Your letter was received, enclosing one from Mary Wigglesworth with $30 from herself & her sisters Jane & Anne   As I happened stopping at one of the hospitals last night Miss Lowe just from Boston came to me & handed the letters   My friend, you must convey the blessings of the poor young men around me here, many amid deepest afflictions not of body only but of soul, to your friends Mary, Jane, & Anne Wigglesworth.3 Their & all contributions shall be sacredly used among them. I find more & more how a little money rightly directed, the exact thing at the exact moment, goes a great ways, to make gifts comfort & truly nourish these American soldiers, so full of manly independence, is required the spirit of love & boundless brotherly tenderness, hand in hand with greatest tact. I do not find any lack in the storehouses, nor eager willingness of the North to unlock them for the soldiers   but sadly everywhere a lack of fittest hands to apply, & of just the right thing in just the right measure, & of all being vivified by the spirit I have mentioned    Say to the sisters Mary & Jane & Anne Wigglesworth, & to your own sister, Margaret,4 that as I feel it a privilege myself to be doing a part among these things, I know well enough the like privilege must be sweet to them, to their compassionate & sisterly souls, & need indeed few thanks, & only ask its being put to best use, what they feel to give among sick & wounded. I have received L B Russell's5 letter & contribution by same hand, & shall try to write to him to-morrow    Walt Address | care Major Hapgood | paymaster U S A cor 15th & F st | Washington D C. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00797.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to James Redpath ,","Oct 12, 1863",0.187814497484," Your note of Oct 8,2 enclosing Dr Russell's of 4th to you,3 is just rec'd. Yours with $5, some weeks ago, came safely. The generosity of Dr. Russell, Mrs. Curtis, and the other friends, I will briefly say, tells daily & nightly & shall tell to the best of my power, upon my dear boys here, in hospital. I do not miss one day or night. (I guess we, I & the wounded &c, were made for each other.) I have written to Dr Russell, to Mrs Curtis & to Miss Stevenson.4 Do you want to print a little 30 or 50ct book about the scenes, war, camp, hospitals &c (especially the &c.)5 I shall probably remain here, in this thing. I am very happy. I never was so beloved. I am running over with health, fat, red & sunburnt in face &c. I tell thee I am just the one to go [to] our sick boys. Good by, my friend. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00889.html," Letter from Bethuel Smith to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 13, 1863",0.187950496396,  Washington Oct the 13 1863  Dear Friend I now sit down to write to write you a few lines to let you now where I am I am with the regiment now. I left Carlisle about one week ago and have ben diledaleying around & have not had time to rite to you untill now & I have not got much time now the toe is most all healed up but my foot is swelled so that I can not get my boot on it swelled from walking from the depot [out?]  her but I think that will go down in a day or to the brigade is gone out to the front again & I dont now but we shall follow them pretty soon I dont now as I can write anny more at present So good by for this time   Bethuel Smith1Co. F. 2nd U. S. Cav.Washington DC  
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00147.html," Letter from Julia Stilwell to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 13, 1863",0.187950496396," Mr. Whitman, Dear Friend I received your kind and ever welcome letter from you and glad to hear that my brother is so comfortable and many thanks to you for your kindness to him and to me in writing to let me know how he is and I hope that the lord will reward you for your kindness to us who are entire strangers to you and I am sure that I will and all of us will ever be gratefull to you and never will forget you or your kindness to us in our days of trouble  we had heard of our dear Brothers death2 and we was in hopes that James3 would not hear of it untill he got stronger Will you please be so kind as to inquire in Washington if we can go to Culpepper and get his body. they would not let us go some two weeks but we have heard since that they had given so many days for any one to go after bodies but we dont know if it is true or not and if you will Please inquire, we shall be very much obliged to you. Please write and let me know and oblige "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00798.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Oct 13, 1863",0.187950496396,"  Washington  Oct 13 | 1863  Dearest mother, [Nothing] particular new with me. I am well & hearty   think a good deal about home. Mother, I so much want to see you, even if only for a couple of weeks   for I feel I must return here & continue my hospital operations. They are so much needed, although one can do only such a little in comparison, amid these thousands. Then I desire much to see Andrew.1 I wonder if I could cheer him up any   does he get any good from that treatment with the baths, &c. Mother, I suppose you have your hands full with Nancy's poor little children, & one worry & another (when one gets old little things bother a great deal). Mother, I go down every day looking for a letter from you or Jeff   I had two from Jeff latter part of the week.2 I want to see Jeff much. I wonder why he didn't send me the Union with my letter in.3 I am disappointed at not getting it. I sent Han [a] N Y Times with my last letter, & one to George too. Have you heard any thing from George or Han? There is a new lot of wounded now again.4 They have been arriving, sick & wounded, for three days   First long strings of ambulances with the sick. But yesterday many with bad & bloody wounds, poor fellows. I thought I was cooler & more used to it, but the sight of some of them brought tears into my eyes   Mother, I had the good luck yesterday to do quite a great deal of good   I had provided a lot of nourishing things for the men, but for another quarter   but I had them where I could use them immediately for these new wounded as they came in faint & hungry, & fagged out with a long rough journey, all dirty & torn, & many pale as ashes, & all bloody   I distributed all my stores, gave partly to the nurses I knew that were just taking charge of them   & as many as I could I fed myself   Then besides I found a lot of oyster soup handy, & I procured it all at once   Mother, it is the most pitiful sight I think when first the men are brought in   I have to bustle round, to keep from crying   they are such rugged young men   all these just arrived are cavalry men   Our troops got the worst of it, but fought like devils. Our men engaged were Kilpatrick's5 cavalry. They were in the rear as part of Meade's retreat   & the reb cavalry cut in between & cut them off & [attacked] them & shelled them terribly. But Kilpatrick brought them out mostly   this was last Sunday. Mother, I will try to come home before long, if only for six or eight days. I wish to see you, & Andrew   I wish to see the young ones & Mat. You must write. I am about moving,6 I have been hunting for a room to-day   I shall write next how I succeed. Good by for present, dear mother. Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/yal.00103.html," Letter from James Redpath to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 14, 1863",0.188086495308,"  Boston, Oct 14, 1863  Walt Whitman Dear Friend    About the Book   yes, if I can. I wd like to have it sent on & I will see what I can do about it. Dependent on others for capital, I can't answer any questions of will you publish? right off either yes or no. Glad to know you are now in good running trim; I will do all I can here, in one direction, to keep you supplied with funds.  You[illegible] [illegible] James Redpath  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00426.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 15, 1863",0.18822249422,"  Brooklyn Oct 15th 1863 Dear Walt, Mother received a letter from you yesterday1  I got one the day before.2 Mother did not let me see her letter3 but Mat says that she understands that you say that you think about coming home. I hope dear Walt, that you will come and that soon  I think if you should come just now you might be able to do Andrew considerable good  He is in a very bad way and I really fear, under the present circumstances that he will not last long. Dear Walt I wish that I could do something more for Andrew, but I have to work all the time, almost day and night and another thing I think he would be guided more by your advice than any one elses  That damed infernal robber the doctor4 that he has been with (Andrew has paid him $95 and been getting worse all the time) told Andrew yesterday that he must not come there again till he brought him $45 more. Only think of it. The infernal son of a bitch. I would like to hang him for a thousand years, ten times a second. I dont care anything about it for the good that I think that he could do Andrew but that he Andrew thinks that perhaps if he could pay him $45 he could do something for him. The very fact that the scoundrel wants the money in advance is enough  Dear Walt do come home if only for a short time  And unless you come quite soon you certainly will never see Andrew alive.5 Will you write me at once if you can come. Mother Mat and Sis are all suffering from bad colds, Mother particularly I think is failing rapidly. I do so wish that I could see you and have a good talk abt family affairs  I am in an awful hurry or would write more. To day I have to go through the whole line of conduit Jeff"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00347.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Oct 16, 1863",0.188358493132,"  Camp Nelson Ky.   Oct. 16th/63 Dear Mother, What can be the reason that some of you dont write to me. I have been expecting every day, for the last two weeks to get a letter from home, but every day I have been disapointed I had a letter from Walt, dated Sept. 28th  he said that Andrew was considerable better and was Doctoring with a celabrated Italian Doctor in Court St. I dont have much faith in them new fangled foreign Doctors, but if Andrew is realy so much better, it is good encouragement to keep on and give him a fair trial.1 All the rest at home Walt. says, are as well as usual. Mother I hope you are takeing things easy and comfortable, and above all I hope that you dont wory, and work, as much as you used to. Matty and the babies I hear are first rate. Whenever you hear from Hannah, you must let me know how she is getting along, and if she is comeing home soon. Walt says that you received the money all right, I suppose he means the last I sent you ($187.00) about Sept. 9th. Everything here with me is just the same as when I last wrote you (two or three weeks ago, did you get it)  our Regt. you know is temporarily detatched from the Brigade and stationed at this Post,  there is a great quantity of Quatermaster, and Commissary Stores collected here, which we have to guard There is scarsely any sickness in the Regt. now, as our camp is very dry and healthy and is kept perfectly clean. I dont hear any talk of our leaving here, so I think the chances are that we will stay here some time. I am just as comfortable here as can be, I have first rate grub, a good stove, plenty of wood, and everything nice. Does Jeff ever see Capt. Sims2 or Lieut. McReady3 about Brooklyn,  I wonder what their chances are for getting conscripts. it seem the draft was almost a failure,  what is going to be done now,  will there be another draft, or will they fall back on the old volunteer plan, with big bounties,  I am rather in favor of the draft,  I should very much like to see that party of suckers, that stay at home and oppose the Government forced to come out here and take a rifle, for ( I think just the meanest rebels that ever lived, are those that stay at home and oppose the draft, and blow about the violation of the Constitution, the liberties of the People, and all that sort of thing,)4 and if it was possible to make them come out here, and let the old troops drive them into the next fight, (with Seymour and the Woods5 in the front rank) I think it would be a fine thing, and I am certain that the sooner something is done to stop the mouths of that class of cowardly traitors, the sooner the war will be brought to a close. The election last Tuesday in Ohio was a grand victory for our side,  dont you Yorkers feel a little ashamed about your election last Fall, when you see how other states treat such chaps as Seymoure6 & Vallandigham.7 Jeff, how is it that you never write to a fellow now a days,  ime a good mind to get mad at all of you. Mattie whats the news at your house,  have you got lots of good things put away for the winter  I make lots of reckoning, of good dinners with you, if I come home this winter. Mother dont neglect to write as soon as you get this, and let me know all the particulars of your affairs. I am very anxious to hear from Andrew. I think I shall write to Walt to night or tomorrow  Direct your letters to me at Camp Nelson Ky  51st Regt  N. Y. V. but dont put on the Brigade, Division, or Corps, as I think perhaps the reason of my not hearing from you is, that you have directed, to the Corps, and the letters have gone to the front, the rest of the 9th Corps being somewhere about Knoxville Tenn. Good bye all, for the present.Geo. W. Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00148.html," Letter from Caleb H. Babbitt to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 18, 1863",0.188630490956," Dear Walt, Your welcom letter of the 27th I recd Tuesday but did not feel in a writing moode, so I have delayed it until now. I do not know but you think me rather neglectful in my writing to you but if you knew the pain that I have in my head, the whole of the time you would not think hard of me. Walt   I am sorry that I am as feeble, and that my friends and likewise my Doctor think that I never shall be able to join my Regt, it is hard for me to gaze or to think of the future, dark clouds seem to be lying in my pathway and I can not seem to remove them nor hide them from my mind, I have tried to look on the bright side of the picture, but Walt   how can I look on the bright side when they are both dark Walt   I have been verry low since I have been at home, and all that has saved me is good nursing and some one to cheer me (which two things I have had) and now and then a letter from you. I must tell you who I have had to cheer and nurse me, besides my parents and sisters: is a young Lady whom I think the world of, yes : might as well tell you, that it is one I love. I feel she has saved me, in the worst of my sickness she hardly left my room how often have I thought what would become of me if it were not for her. Tuesday, she whent to V[ermon]t on a visit and will not be at home for several weeks, so I want you to write to her for Walt   she is one of the best Ladies in the world. I wish you could see her for I know you would like her and I know you will think a great deal of her for her taking such care of me promise me you will write to her, for it used to make her happy to read one of your letters to me  her address is Nellie F. Clark West Hartford Vt. I will now close hoping to hear from you soon I am yours with love and respect "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00149.html," Letter from John and Margaret Stilwell to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 20, 1863",0.18890248878, Mr. Whitman kind frind i improve the present time to write a few lines to you to thank you for the kindness you have shown towards our afflicted son i feel that we cant thank you half enuf for the interest you have Manifested toward him our Dear boy but you have out heart felt thanks for what you have Done for him and us as parents to James and we humble hope the lord will reward you for it and May you in the hour of need find the Same frind you have been to James and i have no Doubt but what you will. our blessed Saviour Says whosoever shall give a cup of cold water to any one Shall not lose his reward therefore i know the lord will reward you for all the kindness you have Showed our Son and to others i Dare Say for those that are kind to one is kind to More and while you are sympathiseing with the afflicted and try to Do little offices of kindness for them May your own Soul be watered from on high for i know when we Do any acts of kindness to others it brings peace and happiness in our own breast for god blesses us in the Deed  May god bless you Dear Sir for what you have Done and Still Doing for us for if you Do it for James you Do it for us and i hope god will bless you in your basket and in your Store in your Soul and in your body wich i trust is his and now Dear Sir i would still ask you to watch over our Dear Son be a father and a Mother to him to Comfort him as far as you can Encourage him tell him not to borrow trouble but to hope for the best if his leg only Does well we are in hopes that with help he can soon come home  i have written Several time if he wanted me to Send him Some things to let Me know and i would Send Some thing that he would relish for i know well person can eat Most any food while those that aint well require Something better  we Dont know what the Doctor would allow him to eat and if we sent him things that he could eat we Dont know wether he would get it or not that is the reason we aint Sent nothing to him but if he is likely to Stay any time or wont be able to come home soon as we would wish we would like to know  how Does he like the new Doctor i hope he will Doctor those that come under his care as those that Must give account and now Dear friend again i would ask you to see to him all you can and you hear things that would interest him and help to pass away the time O if i had wings like noah Dove how soon would i fly and Sit Down by his Side but you must be mother to him yours respectfully   
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00799.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Oct 20, 1863",0.18890248878,"  Washington |  October 20, 1863  Dearest mother, I got your last letter Sunday morning, though it was dated Thursday night. Mother, I suppose you got a letter from me Saturday last, as I sent one the day before, as I was concerned about Andrew   If I thought it would be any benefit to Andrew I should certainly leave everything else & come back to Brooklyn   mother, do you recollect what I wrote last summer about throat diseases,1 when Andrew was first pretty bad   well that's the whole groundwork of the business, any true physician would confirm it   there is no great charm about such things   as to any costly & mysterious baths, there are no better baths than warm water, or vapor, (& perhaps sulphur vapor,) there is nothing costly or difficult about them   one can have a very good sweating bath, at a pinch, by having a pan of warm water under a chair & heating a couple of bricks or stones or any thing to put in one after another, & sitting on the chair with a couple of blankets around him to enclose the vapor   it is a very wholesome sweat too, & not to be sneezed at if one wishes to do what is salutary, & thinks of the sense of a thing, & not what others do   Andrew mustn't be discouraged, those diseases are painful & tedious, but he can recover & will yet    Dear mother, I sent your last letter to George with a short one I wrote myself, I sent it yesterday   I sent a letter last Wednesday 14th to him also, hoping that if one don't reach him another will   hasn't Jeff seen Capt Sims or Lieut McReady2 yet, & don't they hear whether the 51st is near Nicholasville, Kentucky, yet? I send George papers now & then   Mother, one of your letters contains part of my letter to the Union,3 (I wish I could have got the whole of it.) It seems to be mostly as I intended it, barring a few slight misprints   was my last name signed at the bottom of it? tell me when you write next4   Dear mother, I am real sorry & mad too that the water works people have cut Jeff's wages down to $505   this is a pretty time to cut a man's wages down   the mean old punkin heads   mother, I can't understand it at all   tell me more the particulars   Jeff, I often wish you was on here, you would be better appreciated, there is big salaries paid here sometimes to civil engineers   Jeff, I know a fellow, E C Stedman,6 has been here till lately, is now in Wall street, he is poor but he is in with the big bankers (Hallett & Co) who are in with Fremont7 in his line of Pacific railroad   I can get his (Stedman's) address, & should you wish it any time I will give you a letter to him   I shouldn't wonder if the big men, with Fremont at head, were going to push their route, works, road, &c &c. in earnest, & if a fellow could get a good managing place in it, why it might be worth while   I think after Jeff has been with the Brooklyn W[ater] W[orks] from the beginning, & so faithful & so really valuable, to put down to $50, the mean low-lived old shoats. I have felt as indignant about it, the meanness of the thing, & mighty inconvenient too, $40 a month makes a big difference   Mother, I hope Jeff won't get & keep himself in a perpetual fever, with all these things & others & botherations, both family & business ones   if he does, he will just wear himself down before his time comes   I do hope, Jeff, you will take things equably all round, & not brood or think too deeply   So I go giving you all good advice    O Mother, I must tell you how I get along in my new quarters, I have moved to a new room, 456 Sixth street, not far from Pennsylvania avenue, (the big street here,) & not far from the Capitol   it is in 3d story, an addition back, seems to be going to prove a very good winter room, as it is right under the roof & looks south, has low windows, is plenty big enough, I have gas   I think the lady will prove a good woman, she is old & feeble, (there is a little girl of 4 or 5, I hear her sometimes calling grandma, grandma just exactly like Hat, it made me think of you & Hat right away)   one thing is I am quite by myself, there is no passage up there except to my room, & right off against my side of the house is a great old yard with grass & some trees back, & the sun shines in all day &c. & it smells sweet & good air, good big bed, I sleep first rate   there is a young wench of 12 or 13, Lucy, (the niggers here are the best & most amusing creatures you ever see)   she comes & goes, gets water &c., she is pretty much the only one I see   then I believe the front door is not locked at all at night   (in the other place the old thief the landlord had two front doors, with four locks & bolts on one, & three on the other   & a big bull-dog in the back yard   we were well fortified I tell you   sometimes I had an awful time at night getting in)   I pay $10 a month, this includes gas, but not fuel   Jeff, you can come on & see me easy now   Mother, to give you an idea of prices here, while I was looking for rooms, I went in to see a couple of furnished rooms about like our two in Wheelers houses8 (2d story), nothing extra about them, either in location or any thing, & the rent was $60 a month   yet quite curious vacant houses here are not so very dear, very much the same as in Brooklyn   dear mother, Jeff wrote in his letter9 latter part of last week you was real unwell with a very bad cold, (& that you didn't have enough good meals)   mother, I hope this will find you well & good spirits   I think about you every day & night   Jeff thinks you show your age more, & failing like   O my dear mother, you must not think of failing yet   I hope we shall have some comfortable years yet. Mother, don't you allow things, troubles, to take hold of you   write a few lines whenever you can, tell me exactly how things are   Mother, I am first rate & well, only a little of that deafness again   good bye for present. Walt Mother, I am of course every day in hospitals   they are pretty full now, some very bad wounds   Mother, it is the opinion here this morning that Lee has vamosed back into lower Virginia again but there's no telling   he's a cunning old fox   he may make a dash at us here before we know it10    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00379.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Julia Elizabeth Stilwell ,","Oct 21, 1863",0.189038487692,"  Washington  October 21 1863  Dear friend,2 Jimmy is getting along favorably as usual but of course somewhat slowly. I was with him night before last, & am going again this afternoon. It requires a good deal of patience in him to lay so steadily confined in bed, but he still has the good luck to continue remarkably free from any acute suffering. Night before last he had some pain & swelling in the foot & leg below the wound, but nothing of serious account. They bandaged it pretty tightly, & that seemed to relieve it. Jim wished me to write to you this time, & I promised him night before last to do so. I wrote at that time from the hospital to your parents at Comac, & sent the letter yesterday. Jim is dissatisfied unless I write pretty often, whether there is any thing to write about or not   My friend, I rec'd your note about your folks getting your dear brother's body from down in Virginia.3 Dear friend, the rebels have lately advanced upon us, as you doubtless know, & held Culpepper & thereabout for many days past   but the rumor now is that they are falling back, & that Meade will probably take possession of his old ground4   but at present I doubt if any thing could be done   the authorities here do not grant passes yet, they are stricter than ever    Dear friends all, I would say to you as I have written to Jimmy's parents, that I shall try to keep watch of the boy, as I shall probably continue in Washington for some time yet   & if any thing should occur I will write to you   as it may be some reliance to you & make you feel less uneasy, to feel that Jim can have nothing occur in his case without your being informed   though as far as now appears, he will go on favorably, & his wound is likely to heal so that he can sit up, & then gradually move about, & so in due time be able to travel    So, my friend, farewell for present, & I pray that God may be with you, & though we are strangers I send my love to you & all Jimmy's sisters & brothers in law   for in times of trouble & death folks draw near in spirit regardless of being separated by distance, or of being personally strangers    Walt Whitman care Major Hapgood, paymaster U S A | cor 15th & F st | Washington | D C. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/yal.00093.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to James Redpath ,","Oct 21, 1863",0.189038487692," Dear friend,2 My idea is a book of the time, worthy the time   something considerably beyond mere hospital sketches   a book for sale perhaps in a larger American market   the premises or skeleton memoranda of incidents, persons, places, sights, the past year (mostly jotted down either on the spot or in the spirit of seeing or hearing what is narrated)   (I left New York early last December, & have been around in the front3 or here ever since)   full of interest I surely think   in some respects somewhat a combination in handling of the Old French Memoires, & my own personality (things seen through my eyes, & what my vision brings)   a book full enough of mosaic, but all fused to one comprehensive thing   one of the drifts is to push forward the very big & needed truth, that our national military system needs shifting, revolutionizing & made to tally with democracy, the people4   The officers should almost invariably rise from the ranks   there is an absolute want of democratic spirit in the present system & officers   it is the feudal spirit exclusively   nearly the entire capacity, keenness & courage of our army are in the ranks   (what has been done has been unavoidable so far, but the time has arrived to discuss the change)    I have much to say of the hospitals, the immense national hospitals   in them too most radical changes of premises are demanded   (the air, the spirit of a thing is every thing, the details follow & adjust themselves). I have many hospital incidents, [that] will take with the general reader   I ventilate my general democracy with details very largely & with reference to the future   bringing in persons, the President, Seward5, Congress, the Capitol, Washington City, many of the actors of the drama   have something to say of the great trunk America, the West &c &c   do not hesitate to diffuse myself   the book is very rapid   is a book that can be read by the five or ten minutes at (being full of small parts, pieces, paragraphs with their dates, incidents &c)   I should think two or three thousand sale ought to be certainly depended on here in hospitals in Washington, among departments &c    My idea is a book of handy size & form, 16 mo or smallish 12 mo, first rate paper (this last indispensable), ordinary binding, strongly stitched, to cost including copyright not more than 35 or 40cts or there-abouts to make, to retail for a dollar. It should be got out immediately. I think an edition, elegantly bound, might be pushed off for books for presents &c for the holidays, if advertised for that purpose. It would be very appropriate. I think it a book that would please women. I should expect it to be popular with the trade. Of course I propose the affair to you publisherially as something to invest in, to make out of (for both of us)   I take it it would be a very handsome speculation. Only it is to be done while the thing is warm, namely at once. I have been & am in the midst of these things, I feel myself full of them, & I know the people generally now are too (far more than they know,) & would readily absorb & understand my mem[oranda]. Wherefore let us make & publish the book, & out with it so as to have it for sale by middle or 20th of November. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00427.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 22, 1863",0.189174486604,"  Brooklyn Oct 22nd 1863 Dear Walt, This morning I mail with this a letter to you from Mother and also a letter to George from Mother. I suppose Mother has told you fully abt Andrew. My own opinion is that he will not recover, that he cannot last long. However I think that it is owning more to the circumstances that surround him than to his disease. There is no use trying to disguise the matter, Andrew is very unfortunately situated in regard to his home. His wife, I guess is not one of the doing kind, and posessed with rather an ugly high temper.1 His disease of course makes Andrew fretful and discouraged, and instead of soothing and nursing him Nancy does the reverse. As to his disease I really think that had I the same disease that I could recover from it.2 However I dont know. I sincerely wish that you would come hom for a short time anyway. I think that you could do Andrew a great deal of good  In the letter3 that Mother received yesterday from you, you speak abt my having been reduced in pay. I am sorry Mother wrote you abt it for it only worries you without doing any good, and another thing it is not like you think in regard to cutting down my wages. I was working for the two boards of Commissioners, one at $40 and the other at $50 per month, and I have got all the work for one board finished (the one at $40) [and?] as the Sal. of the office I hold for the Permanent board (that of Map clerk at $50) is put down in their annual appropriation at $50 why of course I have to get along with it for the present. It is not the meanness4 or anything of that kind of anybody and they would pay me more if they could and will probably in a short time. I shall get some appointment again from the old board I have no doubt, and soon too. As to the worry part, I never think of that  A man with a wife like I have got cant worry even if he wanted to. Give yourself no thought abt my worring. Something that I have got entirely past.5 I have every reason to think that the Commissioners (both boards) think well of me, and I know that Mr Lane6 will ever do everything in his power for me, and I undoubtedly in a short time shall be getting more. In regard to the Pacific R. R.7 I am real obliged to you. I learned this morning that our friend J. W. Adams8 was appointed chief and I've no doubt but I could get a place at once on it, yet I think that in the end I will make more by staying where I am but its rather pleasant to have that to fall back on. I wish you would write me  Ruggles9 sends his regards. Jeff"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00599.html," Letter from Margaret Stilwell to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 25, 1863",0.18958248334," Mr Whitman kind friend we are very thankful to you for the kindness you have shown and Still Show to our poor boy  i cant express My feelings that I feel towards you for the interst you have taken in our Son for Sympathize-ing with us in the loss of our Dear Son wich loss we Deeply feel but i humble hope our loss is poor John2 Eternal gain for i hope he lived long enuf to Make his pease with god before he Died we Miss him very Much though those little messengers of love and kindness that we received from him every week and the reason we Didnt Say any thing to James about it we was afraid it Might make him worse and we thought if he went to worrying about him fever Might Set in and that would be worse for the wound for as there is allways Some fever with a bad wound and when his brother and brother in law went to see him we thought he didnt know John was Dead his brother asked the Doctor if he better tell him and the Doctor thought not they intended to get a pass to go and bring poor John on to his friends but they would not give them any they Said they would have him Sent on but it is money Makeing all through this war after a Man has laid Down his life in his country cause then they want pay for his poor body if sent home to his friends Dear Sir Do you know what they have if Sent to their friends if not we ask the favour of you to inquire i suppose John was buried not far from Culpeper  William Did not think of asking what it would cost to Send him on to his frinds the captain had him conved to the town of C but found it impossible to procure a Coffin they buryed him as Decently as they could by pining him up in a thick woolen blanket  the captain Said he or John had often express a Desire to be Sent to his friends if he should fall in action wich was Much to be regreted that he couldnt be Sent to his friends but I hope we will be able to get him Sent or brought on yet we would feel better satisfied if we could have John buried among his frinds we would feel very grateful if you would inquire what it would or what it did cost to send a soldier on to York State and now Dear frind be all you Can to James father Mother and frind and May god reward you in your labor of love to the afflicted Dear Sir we are as parents very thankful to you for writeing to us to let us know how our poor boy is for we are very anxious to hear from him you May know Something of a parent feelings if he was only closer by where we could See him Some time we would be glad but we Must be patient and trust in God hopeing for the best, yours respectfully "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00150.html," Letter from S. H. Childs ( for Caleb H. Babbitt ) to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 26, 1863",0.189718482252," Caleb Babbitt1 wishes me to write you a few lines to let you know where he is. as you will see by the heading of this letter that he is in a Hospital in Boston. he Is unable to set up & suffers considerable pain In his head. you will probably see Mr Archibald & he will Inform you how he Is getting along. he wishes you to say something about Miss Clark to him If you write to Miss C her Address Is Barre, Mass. Babbitt wishes you to write to him.   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00800.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Oct 27, 1863",0.189854481164,"  Washington |  Oct 27 1863  Dearest mother, Yours & George's letter came, & a letter from Jeff too, all good.1 I had received a letter a day or so before from George too   I am very glad he is at Camp Nelson, Kentucky, & I hope & pray the reg't will be kept there   for God knows they have tramped enough for the last two years, & fought battles & been through enough. I have sent George papers to Camp Nelson, & will write to-morrow. I send him the Unions, & late New York papers. Mother, you or Jeff write & tell me how Andrew is, I hope he will prove to be better, such complaints are sometimes very alarming for awhile, & then take such a turn for the better. Common means, & steadily pursuing them, about diet, especially, are so much more reliable than any course of medicine whatever. Mother, I have written to Han. I sent her George's letter to me, & wrote her a short letter myself. I sent it four or five days ago. Mother, I am real pleased to hear Jeff's explanation2 how it is that his wages was cut down, & that it was not as I fancied, from the meanness of the old coons in the Board   I felt so indignant about it, as I took it into my head, (though I don't know why), that it was done out of meanness, & was a sort of insult   I was quite glad Jeff wrote a few lines about it   & glad they appreciate Jeff too    Mother,3 if any of my soldier boys should ever call upon you, (as they are often anxious to have my address in Brooklyn,) you just use them as you know how to without ceremony, & if you happen to have pot luck & feel to ask them to take a bite, dont be afraid to do so   there is one very good boy, Thos Neat,4 2d N Y Cavalry, wounded in leg   he is now home on furlough, his folks live I think in Jamaica, he is a noble boy, he may call upon you, (I gave him here $1 toward buying his crutches &c.)   I like him very much   Then possibly a Mr. Haskell,5 or some of his folks, from western New York, may call   he had a son died here, a very fine boy. I was with him a good deal, & the old man & his wife have written me, & asked me my address in Brooklyn, he said he had children in N Y city, & was occasionally down there   Mother, when I come home I will show you some of the letters I get from mothers, sisters, fathers &c. They will make you cry   There is nothing new with my hospital doings   I was there yesterday afternoon & evening, & shall be there again to-day    Mother, I would like to hear how you are yourself   has your cold left you, & do you feel better?   do you feel quite well again? I suppose you have your good stove all fired-up these days   we have had some real cool weather here   I must rake up a little cheap second hand stove for my room, for it was in the bargain that I should get that myself   Mother, I like my place quite well, better on nearly every account than my old room, but I see it will only do for a winter room   they keep it clean, & the house smells clean, & the room too   my old room they just left every thing lay where it was, & you can fancy what a litter & dirt there was   still it was a splendid room for air, for summer, as good as there is in Washington   I got a letter from Mrs Price this morning   does Emmy ever come to see you? Matty, my dear sister, & Miss Mannahatta, & the little one (whose name I dont know, & perhaps han't got any name yet,) I hope you are all well & having good times. I often, often think about you all. Mat, do you go any to the opera now?   they say the new singers are so good   when I come home we'll all try to go6    Mother, I am very well   have some cold in my head & my ears stopt up yet, making me sometimes quite hard of hearing   I am writing this in Major Hapgood's office   last Sunday I took dinner at my friends the O'Connors, had two roast chickens, stewed tomatoes, potatoes, &c. I took dinner there previous Sunday also. Well, dear Mother, how the time passes away7   to think it will soon be a year I have been away   it has passed away very swiftly somehow to me   O what things I have witnessed during that time   I shall never forget them   & the war is not settled yet, & one does not see any thing at all certain about the settlement yet, but I have finally got for good I think into the feeling that our triumph is assured, whether it be sooner or whether it be later, or whatever roundabout way we are led there, & I find I dont change that conviction from any reverses we meet, or any delays or government blunders   there are blunders enough, heaven knows, but I am thankful things have gone on as well for us as they have   thankful the ship rides safe & sound at all   then I have finally made up my mind that Mr Lincoln has done as good as a human man could do   I still think him a pretty big President   I realize here in Washington that it has been a big thing to have just kept the United States from being thrown down & having its throat cut   & now I have no doubt it will throw down secession & cut its throat   & I have not had any doubt since Gettysburgh   Well, dear, dear Mother, I will draw to a close, Andrew & Jeff & all, I send you my love   good bye, dear Mother, & dear Matty & all hands    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/med.00320.html," Letter from James Redpath to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 28, 1863",0.189990480076,"  Boston, October 28, 1863  Friend W. I have taken your proposition into consideration. There is a lion in the way   $ I could easily publish a small Book, but the one you propose   to stereotype, advertise and push it   implies an expenditure that may be beyond my means. But if I can get credit, I may try. Whether I will or no depends somewhat on the printer's notions as to whether the book would sell. Suppose you finish it and send it on: if I can't publish it, I will see if some other person won't. This is the best I can safely promise you. If I can get one or two jobbers to read and like it, and they will make an advance order, or give a favorable trade opinion, the way is clear. What say?  James Redpath  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00801.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Margaret S. Curtis ,","Oct 28, 1863",0.189990480076," Dear Madam. Since I last wrote you2 I have continued my hospital visitations daily or nightly without intermission & shall continue them this fall & winter. Your contributions, & those of your friends, sent me for the soldiers wounded & sick, have been used among them in manifold ways, little sums of money given, (the wounded very generally come up here without a cent & in lamentable plight,) & in purchases of various kinds, often impromptu, as I see things wanted on the moment, for instance [when a] train is standing tediously waiting, &c. as they often are here. But what I write this note for particularly is to see if your sister, Hannah Stevenson,3 or yourself, might find it eligible to see a young man whom I love very much, who has fallen into deepest affliction, & is now in your city. He is a young Massachusetts soldier from Barre. He was sun-struck here in Washington last July, was taken to hospital here, I was with him a good deal for many weeks   he then went home to Barre   became worse   has now been sent from his home to your city   is at times (as I infer) so troubled with such distress   I received a letter from Boston this morning from a stranger about him,4 telling me (he appears too ill to write himself) that he is in Mason General Hospital, Boston. His name is Caleb H. Babitt5 of Co E 34th Mass Vol. He must have been brought there lately. My dear friend, if you should be able to go, or if not able yourself give this to your sister or some friend who will go   it may be that my dear boy & comrade is not so very bad, but I fear he is. Tell him you come from me like, & if he is in a situation to talk, his loving heart will open to you at once. He is a manly, affectionate boy. I beg whoever goes would write a few lines to me how the young man is. I send my thanks & love to yourself, your sister, husband, & the sisters Wigglesworth.6 Or else give this to Dr. Russell.7 The letter from the stranger above referred to is dated also Pemberton square hospital. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00802.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Lewis K. Brown ,","Nov 1, 1863",0.190534475724,"  Brooklyn,  November 8, 1863  Dear son & comrade,2 | & all my dear comrades in the hospital, I sit down this pleasant Sunday forenoon intending to write you all a good stout letter, to try to amuse you as I am not able at present to visit you, like I did   yet what I shall write about I hardly know until I get started   but, my dear comrades, I wish to help you pass away the time, for a few minutes any how   I am now home at my mother's in Brooklyn, N Y   I am in good health as ever & eat my rations without missing one time   Lew, I wish you was here with me, & I wish my dear comrade Elijah Fox3 in Ward G was here with me   but perhaps he is on his way to Wisconsin   Lewy, I came through from Washington to New York by day train, 2d Nov., had a very pleasant trip, every thing went lovely, & I got home in the evening between 8 and 9   Next morning I went up to the polls bright & early   I suppose it is not necessary to tell you how I voted   we have gained a great victory in this city   it went union this time, though it went democratic strong only a year ago, & for many years past   & all through the state the election was a very big thing for the union   I tell you the copperheads got flaxed out handsomely4   indeed these late elections are about as great a victory for us as if we had flaxed General Lee himself, & all his men   & as for personal good will I feel as if I could have more for Lee or any of his fighting men, than I have for the northern copperheads    Lewy, I was very glad to get your letter of the 5th   I want you to tell Oscar Cunningham5 in your ward that I sent him my love & he must try to keep up good courage while he is confined there with his wound. Lewy, I want you to give my love to Charley Cate6 & all the boys in Ward K, & to Benton7 if he is [there still]   I wish you would go in Ward C and see James S Stilwell,8 & also Thomas Carson9 in same ward, & Chambers10 that lays next to him, & tell them I sent them my love. Give Carson this letter to read if he wishes it. Tell James Stilwell I have writ from here to his folks at Comac, L. I., & it may be I shall go down there next week on the L I railroad; & let him have this letter to read if he wishes it   Tell Manvill Winterstein11 that lays next to him in Ward C that I send him my love, & I hope his wound is healing good. Lew, I wish you to go in Ward B and tell a young cavalry man, his first name is Edwin,12 he is wounded in the right arm, that I sent him my love, & on the opposite side a young man named Charley13 wounded in left hand, & Jennings,14 & also a young man I love that lays now up by the door just above Jennings, that I sent them all my love. So, Lew, you see I am giving you a good round job, with so many messages   but I want you to do them all, dear son, & leave my letter with each of the boys that wish it, to read for themselves   tell Miss Gregg15 in Ward A that I send my love to Pleasant Borley,16 if he is still there, & if so I hope it will be God's will that he will live & get strong to go home yet   I send my love to little Billy,17 the Ohio boy in Ward A, & to Miss Gregg herself   & if Mrs Doolittle is in Ward B, please ask her to tell the boys in the ward I sent them my love, & to her too, & give her this letter some evening to read to the boys, & one of these days I will come back & read to them myself   & the same to Mrs Southwick in Ward H, if she wishes to read it to the boys for my sake. Lew, I wish you would go in Ward G & find a very dear friend of mine in bed 11, Elijah D Fox, if he is still there. Tell him I sent him my best love, & that I make reckoning of meeting him again, & that he must not forget me, though that I know he never will   I want to hear how he is, & whether he has got his papers through yet   Lewy, I wish you would go to him first & let him have this letter to read if he is there   Lewy, I would like you to give my love to a young man named Burns in Ward I, & to all the boys in Ward I   & indeed in every ward, from A to K inclusive, & all through the hospital, as I find I cannot particularize without being tedious   so I send my love sincerely to each & all, for every sick & wounded soldier is dear to me as a son or brother, & furthermore every man that wears the union uniform & sticks to it like a man, is to me a dear comrade, & I will do what I can for him though it may not be much   & I will add that my mother & all my folks feel just the same about it, & would show it by their works too when they can    Well, dear comrades, what shall I tell you to pass away the time? I am going around quite a great deal, more than I really desire to. Two or three nights ago I went to the N Y Academy of Music, to the Italian opera.18 I suppose you know that is a performance, a play, all in music & singing, in the Italian language, very sweet & beautiful. There is a large company of singers & a large band, altogether two or three hundred. It is in a splendid great house, four or five tiers high, & a broad parquette on the main floor. The opera here now has some of the greatest singers in the world   the principal lady singer (her name is Medori) has a voice that would make you hold your breath with wonder & delight, it is like a miracle   no mocking bird nor the clearest flute can begin with it   besides it is [a] very rich & strong voice   & besides she is a tall & handsome lady, & her actions are so graceful as she moves about the stage, playing her part. Boys, I must tell you just one scene in the opera I saw   things have worked so in the piece that this lady is compelled, although she tries very hard to avoid it, to give a cup of poisoned wine to her lover   the king her husband forces her to do it   she pleads hard, but her husband threatens to take both their lives (all this is in singing & music, very fine)   so the lover is brought in as a prisoner, & the king pretends to pardon him & make up, & asks the young man to drink a cup of wine, & orders the lady to pour it out. The lover drinks it, then the king gives her & him a look, & smiles & walks off the stage. And now came as good a piece of performance as I ever saw in my life. The lady as soon as she saw that her husband was really gone, she sprang to her lover, clutched him by the arm, & poured out the greatest singing you ever heard   it poured like a raging river more than any thing else I could compare it to   she tells him he is poisoned   he tries to inquire &c and hardly knows what to make of it   she breaks in, trying to pacify him, & explain &c   all this goes on very rapid indeed, & the band accompanying   she quickly draws out from her bosom a little vial, to neutralize the poison, then the young man in his desperation abuses her & tells her perhaps it is to poison him still more as she has already poisoned him once   this puts her in such agony, she begs & pleads with him to take the antidote at once before it is too late   her voice is so wild & high it goes through one like a knife, yet it is delicious   she holds the little vial to his mouth with one hand & with the other springs open a secret door in the wall, for him to escape from the palace   he swallows the antidote, & as she pushes him through the door, the husband returns with some armed guards, but she slams the door to, & stands back up against the door, & her arms spread wide open across it, one fist clenched, & her eyes glaring like a wild cat, so they dare not touch her   & that ends the scene. Comrades, recollect all this is in singing & music, & lots of it too, on a big scale, in the band, every instrument you can think of, & the best players in the world, & sometimes the whole band & the whole men's chorus & women's chorus all putting on the steam together   & all in a vast house, light as day, & with a crowded audience of ladies & men. Such singing & strong rich music always give me the greatest pleasure   & so the opera is the only amusement I have gone to, for my own satisfaction, for last ten years. But, my dear comrades, I will now tell you something about my own folks   home here there is quite a lot of us   my father is not living   my dear mother is very well indeed for her age, which is 67   she is cheerful & hearty, & still does all her light housework & cooking   She never tires of hearing about the soldiers, & I sometimes think she is the greatest patriot I ever met, one of the old stock   I believe she would cheerfully give her life for the Union, if it would avail any thing   and the last mouthful in the house to any union soldier that needed it19   then I have a very excellent sister-in-law   she has two fine young ones   so I am very happy in the women & family arrangements. Lewy, the brother I mentioned as sick, lives near here, he is very poorly indeed, & I fear will never be much better20   he too was a soldier, has for several months had throat disease   he is married & has a family   I believe I have told you of still another brother in the army, down in the 9th Army Corps, has been in the service over two years, he is very rugged & healthy   has been in many battles, but only once wounded, at first Fredericksburgh. Monday forenoon November 9. Dear comrades, as I did not finish my letter yesterday afternoon, as I had many friends come to see me, I will finish it now   the news this morning is that Meade is shoving Lee back upon Richmond, & that we have already given the rebs some hard knocks, there on the old Rappahannock fighting ground. O I do hope the Army of the Potomac will at last gain a first-class victory, for they have had to retreat often enough, & yet I believe a better Army never trod the earth than they are & have been for over a year. Well, dear comrades, it looks so different here in all this mighty city, every thing going with a big rush & so gay, as if there was neither war nor hospitals in the land. New York & Brooklyn appear nothing but prosperity & plenty. Every where carts & trucks & carriages & vehicles on the go, loaded with goods, express-wagons, omnibuses, cars, &c   thousands of ships along the wharves, & the piers piled high, where they are loading or unloading the cargoes   all the stores crammed with every thing you can think of, & the markets with all sorts of provisions   tens & hundreds of thousands of people every where, (the population is 1,500,000), almost every body well-drest, & appearing to have enough   then the splendid river & harbor here, full of ships, steamers, sloops, &c   then the great street, Broadway, for four miles, one continual jam of people, & the great magnificent stores all along on each side, & the show windows filled with beautiful & costly goods   I never saw the crowd thicker, nor such goings on & such prosperity   & as I passed through Baltimore & Philadelphia it seemed to be just the same. I am quite fond of crossing on the Fulton ferry, or South ferry, between Brooklyn & New York, on the big handsome boats. They run continually day & night. I know most of the pilots, & I go up on deck & stay as long as I choose. The scene is very curious, & full of variety. The shipping along the wharves looks like a forest of bare trees. Then there are all classes of sailing vessels & steamers, some of the grandest & most beautiful steamships in the world, going or coming from Europe, or on the California route, all these on the move. As I sit up there in the pilot house, I can see every thing, & the distant scenery, & away down toward the sea, & Fort Lafayette &c. The ferry boat has to pick its way through the crowd. Often they hit each other, then there is a time    My loving comrades, I am scribbling all this in my room in my mother's house. It is Monday forenoon   I have now been home about a week in the midst of relations, & many friends, many young men, some I have known from childhood, many I love very much. I am out quite a good deal, as we are glad to be with each other   they have entertainments &c. But truly, my dear comrades, I never sit down, not a single time, to the bountiful dinners & suppers to which I am taken in this land of wealth & plenty without feeling it would be such a comfort to all, if you too, my dear & loving boys, could have each your share of the good things to eat & drink, & of the pleasure & amusement. My friends among the young men make supper parties, after which there is drinking &c., every thing prodigal & first rate, one, Saturday night, & another last night   it is much pleasure, yet often in the midst of the profusion, the palatable dishes to eat, & the laughing & talking, & liquors &c, my thoughts silently turn to Washington, to all who lie there sick & wounded, with bread & molasses for supper    Lewy, dear son, I think I shall remain here ten or twelve days longer, & then I will try to be with you once again. If you feel like it I would like to have you write me soon, tell me about the boys, especially James Stilwell, Pleasant Borley, Cunningham, & from the cavalry boy Edwin in ward B   tell me whether Elijah Fox in ward G has gone home   Lew, when you write to Tom Sawyer21 you know what to say from me   he is one I love in my heart, & always shall till death, & afterwards too   I wish you to tell a young man in ward D, 2d bed below the middle door, (his first name is Isaac,22 he is wounded in left leg, & it has had erysipelas), that I sent him my love, & I wish him to have this letter to read if he desires it, & I will see him again before long. So, Lew, I have given you a lot of messages but you can take your time to do them, only I wish each of the boys I have mentioned to have my letter that wishes it, & read it at leisure for themselves, & then pass to another. If Miss Hill in ward F or the lady nurse in ward E cares about reading it to the boys in those wards for my sake, you give it them some evening, as I know the boys would like to hear from me, as I do from them. Well, Lewy, I must bid you good bye for present, dear son, & also to all the rest of my dear comrades, & I pray God to bless you, my darling boys, & I send you all my love, & I hope it will be so ordered to let things go as easy as possible with all my dear boys wounded or sick, & I hope it will be God's will that we shall all meet again, my dear loving comrades, not only here but hereafter. Walt Whitman    Portland avenue near Myrtle Brooklyn New York "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00136.html," Letter from Lewis K. Brown to Walt Whitman ,","Nov 1, 1863",0.190534475724," Dear Friend Walt, I received your large and kind letter in due time & was glad to hear that you wer well & enjoying your self. I was out on pass the day your letter come and when I came in & they gave it me I thought that it was a furlow, or a discharge or something better yet, a commission as a Colonel or Brigadear General, to command Armory Square Hosp   but as it was it pleased me more than any, for I care more for a letter from you than I would for a Com. Now I suppose that you would like to know how I enjoy my self: Well I go out most every day but I do not get them big dinners that I ues to. & I feel quite lost without you hear, but I must be contented to let you remain at home on furlow for a short time, for when you get back I want you to attend Congress with me, as I am a going up to hear the speaking whenever I can get out   (which is prety often now) I have not bin up to the N. York dining rooms but once since you left so I do not know how things is getting along thear. Things in the Hospital has maid quite a chaing. it has bin filled up with wounded since you left. in this ward we had three Colonels and one Major & one Adjudant General and several other commissioned officers amongst whome wer two Rebble Lieutenents   and three reb privates! but to day the rebs wer all sent off that wer able to go, so we have no rebs in this ward, but thear is some in some of the other wards!   Two of the Colonels and all of the rest of the commissioned officers that were able to be transfered: were transfered to the Hospital at Georgetown, so we aint got so many shoulder strapes hear, but we have got enough yet for my use. I think that this last battle has bin a verry hard battle, but it has bin a decided victory although it has cost a many a life for thear was a great many of our men killed & wounded The rebs that was in this ward were verry saucy. they wer as confident of gaining their indapendance as we as of whipping them. they say that they have got plenty to eat and wear, (but I thought by the look of them that they had not enough to ware for they wer verry ragged) or maybe they but on thear old clothes to fight in. (I forgot to ask em that) Saturday morning 14th I will commence writing again. My leg is rather worse this morning & the Doctor sayes that I must stay in bed to day, so I suppose that I must spend the day in bed the best way I can so I will write you another sheat full Well this is saturday & they are a scrubbing the floor. so it will be wet hear all forenoon, so I think that I will be as well in bead as any place else, so I must lay and content myself   Now I suppose that you would like to hear something about the boys that wer home on furlow. Sargent Denison2 has got back   H. Benton3 has not got back yet although his furlow was out the 10th, several others of the boys has got back that went home to vote   I received a letter from Bush since he went home. he is well and enjoying him self, he sayes, he sent a great deal of love to you & said that he was a going to write to you, so I expect that thear is a letter hear for you now from him (Your letter I did not do quite with it as you told me. that is I did not take it to each one, but I took it to the lady nurse of each ward & told her to read it her self (which she did in public) and then to pass it to each one of the men that wer mentioned in it, for them to read, and than to let each one read it that wanted to so when that was don I would carry it to the next ward and do the saim with it thear and so on all through the Hosp. It was in every ward and they all read it that wanted to amongst the rest Dr. Draper4 read it   they were all verry much pleased with it)    All of the old patients are a getting along well   but thear is a good many deaths amongst those that wer brought in last. they are all verry badly wounded. and the most of them are wounded in the body or head. thear are verry few wounded in the legs (but some are) That man in ward A that had the Consumption that layed just above the middle door   is still living, he looks better than he did that night when I seen you up thear that man with the bad arm & that man with the bad leges are mending   in fact thay are all doing so well as they can   They have just began to build the Chapple & Library that thear has bin so much talk about, this morning but if they are as long about getting it finished as they were a getting the floor in this ward it will take them three years or during the war.   then it will not be of much use; will it Well Dear friend I hardly know what else to write to interest you but I will put in something   We still have Miss Lowell5 hear to run this ward & she is worse than ever since we have got these shoulder straps she does not alow me to walk over the floor nor to speak nor nothing else. she eaven has a guard to set at each door to keep out the visitors that comes. when a visitor comes he has to send in his card to let Miss Lowell see who it is  then sometimes he is admited sometimes he is sent away. So you had better set a pack of cards struck off to use when you come back, or maybe Miss Lowell will not be for letting you in. Well I think my letter is getting full long as I must begin to think about closing. I do not expect that you can read one half of it for it is so carelessly wrote and spelt, but what you cannot read you must guess at   that is if you are a yankey for they are good at guessing   but I must not call you a yankey you are to honest for to be one The weather is splendid hear verry different from what it was this time last year it is verry warm we have had but one or two cold disagreeable days.    I expect that they will have the Godress of Liberty summounted on the Capitol as they have maid great progress with it lately. they have got the scaffold all up   I have not bin up to the Capitol for some time, but probily I will go up on Monday if my leg is better.  Well as I have wrote short enough this time I will close hoping verry soon to hear from you   all the boys join me in sending thear love to you & your Mother. so good by and may God bless you, from your friend and Compainion, Lewis K. Brown. Write soon & oblige LKB. I understood yesterday that Elija Fox has not gon home yet, but I did not see him "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00186.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Thomas P. Sawyer , 20 ( ?","Nov 1, 1863",0.190534475724," Dear brother, I am here in Brooklyn, New York, spending a few weeks home at my mother's. I left Washington Nov 2d, & shall return there next week. I wrote to you six or seven weeks ago, the last time.2 I am well & fat, eat my rations regular, & weigh about 200   so you see I am not very delicate. Here in Brooklyn & New York where I was raised, I have so many friends, I believe, now I am here they will kill me with kindness, I go around too much, & I think it would be policy for me to put back to Washington. I have a brother here, very sick, I do not think he can recover, he has been in the army   I have another brother in the 9th Army Corps, has been out 26 months. But the greatest patriot in the family is my old mother. She always wants to hear about the soldiers, & would give her last dime3 to any soldier that needed it. Every thing looks on the rush here in these great cities, more people, more business, more prosperity, & more of every thing to eat & wear, than ever. Tom, I was home in time to vote. The elections went bully. How are you copperheads? I think these last elections will be a settler for all traitors north, & they are the worst. I shall be back in Washington next Tuesday. My room is 456 Sixth street. But my letters are still addrest care of Major Hapgood, paymaster U S A, Washington D C. Well, comrade, I must close. I do not know why you do not write to me. Do you wish to shake me off? That I cannot believe, for I have the same love for you that I exprest in my letters last spring, & I am confident you have the same for me. Anyhow I go on my own gait, & wherever I am in this world, while I have a meal, or a dollar, or if I should have some shanty of my own, no living man will ever be more welcome there than Tom Sawyer. So good by, dear comrade, & God bless you, & if fortune should keep you from me here, in this world, it must not hereafter. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00131.html," Letter from William E. Vandemark to Walt Whitman ,","Nov 2, 1863",0.190670474636, Dear Father I now take the plesure of fulfilling my promace a writing to you hoping those few lines will find you well 1 am getting better fast i am at home now i got home after noon my famly is well i left washington wensday we got to Jursey city thursday twelve oclock then we was taken to davids islind and then friday they gave us passes for 8 days i will come to brooklin sunday morning i wish that yo would meet me at fulten street fery i long to see yo and have a long talk with yo It rains here this morning and to day is lection one of my neighbor men runs for member of assembly he is a good union man and i hope that he will get elected for he is a good union man    i am in the hospittle on davids island up the east river the hospittle is very large and nice place we have nice breazes of wind all the wile i suppose that there will hef to be some heavy fiting soon agen the rain :has made very hiwater here i am soon going to lection to go the union ticket hope the state will go union all through the poor for us their prayers will send for blessing rich and endless and was not Jesus poor a friend to us   else poor and friendly that through his poverty and pain we might the bliss of angels gain a christian help the needy well father i will close now with giveing yo the address write soon for i long to heer from yo from William E Vandemark to his father good by 
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00132.html," Letter from Lewis K. Brown to Walt Whitman ,","Nov 5, 1863",0.191078471372," Dear Walter As I am not a going out to day I thought that my time could not be better imployed than by writing to you. So hear goes,   First I must tell you about the patients hear. I was up to Ward A, this morning to see No. 40, he is better than he was when you went away, and Harry, the Wardmaster, thinks that he will get well   Concerning the patients in Ward C, they are all getting better.     I was asking Miss Platt2 how your patients wer in the ward and she told me that they wer better   that man with the bad leg is mending his wound is quite painful yet but is getting along as well as you could expect. the man in the other wards are mending   thear has bin no wounded brought in since you left   things in this ward have chainged some since you left.  Miss Lowell3 has got back & is getting things put to rites, as she thinks, you know that she has bin on a visit to N.York. J. A. Tabor has gon to his Regt.    he went on Monday   I guess it was rather unexpected to him. Cuningham is about the saim as he was when you left him. I cannot see any change. since Tabor has gon Billy Clements (that little fellow that was in this ward) has been dresser. he does verry well   all of the rest of the patients in theis Ward are mending   all things are a going on in the same old stile hear     I received a letter from T. P. Sawyer to day  he is well. he sayes that they have bin on the move so that he could not answer my letter before.   his Regt is now  near Bealtons Station, a building railroad. he did not mention any thing about your letter   he is a going to try to get a pass to come up hear this winter    Conserning my self I am about old fassion. my leg mends slowly (about as it was when you wer hear) I have bin out in the city on Monday & Tuesday, both days I was at the relief associations, to try to get a shirt or two   yesterday I got a order from the Chaplain yesterday to get two shirts from the Christian Commission, when I went up and showed them the order they told me that they had non   than I went into their store room and thear was some nice shirts thear. 1 told them that they wer just the kind that I wanted   but they told me that they were layed out for distributation amongst the diferant camps through the city. so I got non of them, & I was mad enough to, after walking up thear three times and than get nothing, (the Relief association may be a verry nice thing, but I cant see it, for I never get any thing from them yet   you have give me more than all of the rest put together. . so you are the relief association that I (as well as all the rest of the boys) like best. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00133.html," Letter from Elijah Douglass Fox to Walt Whitman ,","Nov 7, 1863",0.191350469196," Dear friend Walt Not knowing what they were agoing to do with me until thursday last is my excuse for not writing sooner. Thursday I expected my dischar[g]e so that I could start Friday but on going to the office I found that they had not yet been signed by Bliss you recollect that Stearns told me he knew that they had gone up and when the truth was known he knew nothing about it thursday afternoon my papers wer sent in to the ward for me to go before Bliss1 he examined me and told me I could have my papers in three days think I can start tuesday for home    I have got so that I am able to walk to the Sutler's and back (Walt it is useless for me to try to tell you how much i have missed you at night when my supper was brought in there was still something wanting that that was your cheerful smiling face! and then too I missed your kiss of friendship and love as also your kind ""good night"" or ""So long"") I should like much to have seen you again before I went home. I have some thoughts of going up to Annapolis before I start north but have not yet decided. please write as soon as you get this and direct to Portage Kalamazoo, Co. Michigan good by dear friend   I remain your own  Adopted Douglass  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00134.html," Letter from Dr. Le Baron Russell to Walt Whitman ,","Nov 8, 1863",0.191486468108," Dear Sir: I received the other day from a ""Breckinridge Democrat,"" now converted, the inclosed sum of twenty dollars, after he had read your letter. I have not lately made any requests of my friends for more thinking you perhaps were well supplied for the present. I shall be happy to hear from you again, & I think I can find more friends hereafter if you should need them. I send this by a check & I presume they will cash it for you at Willards2 where they know me.2   Very truly yours, L. B. Russell.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00151.html," Letter from Elijah Douglass Fox to Walt Whitman ,","Nov 10, 1863",0.191758465932,"   Dear Father You will allow me to call you Father wont you. I do not know that I told you that both of my parents were dead but it is true and now Walt you will be a second Father to me wont you, for my love for you is hardly less than my love for my natural parent. I have never before met with a man that I could love as I do you still there is nothing strange about it for ""to know you is to love you"" and how any person could know you and not love you is a wonder to me. Your letter found me still here and not yet ready to start home  my Papers have not yet returned from headquarters. I almost wish at times that they would not return until you come back. Were it not for the great love for my wife I would stop until you returned but I still think I shall come back eer long. I think my papers will be in tomorrow certain. Dear Comrade do not feel bad about anything you did or did not do while here. You did much and that which I prized most of all you gave me was your love and your company. One of these I know I have and for both I would charge all the riches in the world. As for your not coming to see me I felt bad about it then but now I think it only taught me how much I should miss you and also what a vacancy there would be in my affections were I to be deprived of your love as well as your company. I have not yet seen your letter to Brown as I did not get this until nearly dark but I will go up there in the morning and see if he has received it. I suppose you have heard that we received some 90 wounded men Sunday night a number of which were Rebels. Among the wounded were the Col and the Maj. of the 6th Wisconsin Regt. and quite a number of privates a great many of them were very badly wounded, more so than any lot I have seen come in, eight of them died while on the way. And now Dear Comarade I must bid you good by hoping you will enjoy your visit and when you return have a pleasant and safe journey be assured you will meet with a warm welcome from many in Armory Square. You will yet be rewarded for your kindness to the Soldiers. (You can direct your next either as you did the last or direct to Portage Kalamazoo Co. Mich) if it comes here it will be forwarded to me. I shall start as soon as my papers come. My love to you and now Dear Father good by for the present.  Douglass   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00940.html," Letter from Ellen M. O'Connor to Walt Whitman ,","Nov 10, 1863",0.191758465932,"  Washington. 400 L Street. Nov. 10.  Did you arrive home safely, dear Walt? and did you vote? did you vote seven time as the Count did when he first become a citizen of these United States?2 If not in your own person, I hope that you caused as many as seven raving democrats to vote right this time, however as the result was all right we argue that you did your part. Now, now, Walt, are you aware that your ten days expire to-morrow! Not that I at all expect to see you then for ten days would be a short time to stay at home after nearly a year's absence, but we have been counting the days in the very faintest hope that you might come then. M. Eldridge comes as usual every evening, and we always ask each other - ""have you heard from Walt?""3 He has sent you two letters, one the next day after you left, and one since. We have drank your health on several occasions, and in a variety of liquids, tea on one occasion. By the way, all of the Piatts including the sweet Patsy & the baby have dined with us since you left.4 I shall save all details to tell you when you come. But you were asked for, and we all wished you present. Of course Mr. Eldridge & Mrs. Cooper formed two of the dinner party.5 Mrs. C. is still with me, being detained much longer than she expected to be, for which I am very glad. I shall not know how to get along without her, especially while you are gone. She is very bright and keeps us alive, she knows how to cook nice things too, and has exercised her genius for me several times, and if you will come back before she is gone, we will have a nice dinner for you. I fully intended to be able to tell you something about your boys in hospital, but I have had so bad a cold since you left and such an annoying troublesome cough with it that I have not been able to go to see them. They must miss you sadly, poor boys, I pity them. How did you find all of home? Did your good mother look as when you left her? & did you remember to give her my love? How did little Hattie look? Had she grown much? & what do you think of the new baby? Did you kiss them both for me? If not you must. How about all the other members of the family? I hope you found all better than you expected. You know I feel personally acquainted with each member of your family. And what about your New York boys? Of course you have seen all, and have had that great time which we are to hear all about when you come back. Indeed, won't you have ""lots"" to tell us! You know you must come back prepared to give us a full account. Have you seen Mrs. Price.6 I wrote her the very day you left. Do you find her much worse than when you left last year? And Walt, have you seen Mr. Howells?7 If not I beg that you will, and with all the skill and talent of which you are master do what you can to disenchant him with those people. I know more about it than when you were here, and I assure you that you will be rendering a service not only to Mrs. H. & the family, but to all who care for them if you can only get him out of this. If he could but know the real truth in regard to ""the great head"" and leader of the reform it would surely open his eyes. He evidently thinks Mr. A. a ""great light"" & a saint of a man, sincere and true. Oh! can't he be enlightened? It is awful, and unless his eyes are soon opened I don't see what will be the end. I depend on you Walt, to see him, at any rate, & your own intuition will tell you whether you can do more, but I feel that you can. He has great regard for your opinions of people and things. William is well as usual, he is at the office or would send lots of love.8 Mrs. Cooper has gone in to the other house to dress for dinner, or she too, would send love. Do you know that in the innocence of her heart she fully believes that you are going to stop and see her in your return through Philadelphia, and I have not the heart to undeceive her, and tell her what a promising youth you are so I don't see but that you really must make the promised visit, & you would have a very good time, I assure you of that beforehand. She wants me to go home with her, but I doubt if I shall. Can't afford it. By the way, one bit of intelligence in regard to our dear friend and neighbor Gwynne I must tell you.9 They think of moving & renting the house up here, & a lady whom I know came to look at it. G. was much pleased at the idea of moving such a nice family as hers for tenants, & offered to rent it for one hundred dollars a month unfurnished. The lady politely declined & told him that she rents her present house  furnished for that sum. Mrs. G. & the new baby are well. I can't think of any more news to tell you. To tell you that we miss you awfully would not be news would it? You expected that, but I do have a most uncomfortable sense of ""goneness"" all the time, & I shall welcome you home here very heartily. Can I do any thing for you in your absence? Don't forget the three things you were to bring for my especial benefit. The picture, letter, & ""Drum Taps-"" Now good bye - and very much love from us all. I have said nothing of Jeannie, she is not as well as I want to see her looking, she is out playing, or I would ask her what message to you. She asks for you often, and hopes you will soon be back.  With love always, Yours, Nelly O'Connor.  Do write very soon, & direct to corner of 14th & L Sts. The two letters Mr. E. has sent you, are letters that come for you. How is your head now? Your hearing? Better I hope.  Nelly.   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00135.html," Letter from William H. McFarland to Walt Whitman ,","Nov 11, 1863",0.191894464844,"   Mr Whitman Dear Sir It is with shame that I sit down to write you a few lines. I have neglected it so long I suppose you thought I had quit forgotten you, but I can asure you my Dear friend such is not the case. I have thought of you verry often. One reason that I have not writen before is I have been shifting about so much since I have been home that if I did write you I could scearcely tell where to have you direct to but now I believe I have got settled down for the winter. Samuel M Dyer2 that got a furlough at the same time I got mine is hear. I spoke to him about writing to you. he felt just as I did about [it]. it was so long since we had promissed to write that he felt ashamed to but I hop you will pardon our neglect, and if it complys with your will I should be very happy to keep up a coraspandenc Now I will try and give you an account of my journy home Samuel M Dyer and myself started from Washington on the 28th day of July 3 oclock pm arrive in Baltimore about 5 pm there we seperated S.M. Dyer took the 9 pm train for Harrisburg I stayed in Baltimore until Thursday evening then took the 9 oclock train for Harrisburg arived at H. about 2 oclock the next morning changed cars there fore Pittsburg arrived there about noon I went to the Soldiers home and got my dinner and a verry good dinner it was to. I then took the 1-40 pm train I did not chang cars again until I got to Chicago Friday evening I got into a sleeping car at Crestline Ohio, arived at Chicago Saterday morning at 8-30. I then thought I would stop there and look up a cousin that I thought lived there, but I found he had left here about two months before that so in the evening I took the cars again and the next morning I arrived at my uncles at McFarland Station I stayd there two weeks, then started for another part to a place called Raymond. there I had a good time. last Friday I came and reported at this Hospital. I think I shall stay here all winter Our elections have gone on finely in this state it always has gon Democratic until this fall it has gone it is estimated 15,000 Majority for the Union that is the home vote the copperheads are completely played out My Regiment (the 5th Wis) cast 450 vots all Republican but 1 solitary one.  I rather guess that one feels lonesome.  I will now close hoping to hear from you soon I remain Your Friend   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00185.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Nov 15, 1863",0.192438460492,"  Brooklyn  November 15 1863  Dear Nelly I have received your letter, also Charles Eldridge's & Mrs Cooper's. Nelly, I hope this will find you better of your cold, & that you & all the rest are well & [in] good spirits. Tell Mrs Cooper I heartily accept her invitation to visit at Philadelphia, & if I can work it so I will come gladly.2 I think about you all, & frequently. I have told my mother & sister about you all. I send my love to William. I feel that I have never had a better friend, & that no truer nor warmer heart beats. Tell Charles Eldridge too I send him my love. I regret his not likely meeting me in New York to go around together. But, Charley, we will have it yet, dear comrade. I received the letters you sent under envelope. For all & sundry, & the year's most valuable kindness, from you three, what can I say, more than that I am sure I appreciate it. Nelly, I had a pleasant trip that Monday from the start, & all through   clear & cool & no dust   I got home about 8 in evening   was up bright & early to the polls next morning &c. How well the election went in this state, you know.3 Here Brooklyn gave a stunning union vote, the biggest ever dreamed of here   Mayor, assemblymen, judges, all elected. Nelly, I am writing this from my room at my mother's house. It is Sunday afternoon, dripping & rainy, the air thick & warm, & the sky lowering. My poor brother Andrew is very ill. It is not likely he can live. His voice is quite gone. Still he moves about & is here all the time during the day. My sister Martha is untiring, feeding & nursing him. Of her children, little Hattie is well   the new baby is immense, & I take to her in proportion. I want her to be called California. She is fully worthy the name. She is large, calm, not pretty but something ahead of that, full of latent fire in the eyes (which are grey) & a complete success every way. Mother is very well & active & cheerful   she still does her own light housework, & keeps up handsomely under her surroundings of domestic pressure   one case of sickness & its accompanying irritability   two of grown helplessness4   & the two little children, very much with her, & one of them unsurpassed in volatility & restlessness   Nelly, I have thought before that the real & best bravery is to be discovered somewhere else than in the bravery of war, & beyond the heroisms of men. My brother Jeff is well   he is a noble young man & one to love. I find my New York boys the same gay-hearted, joyous fellows, full of friendship & determined to have pleasure. We have been together quite a good deal. They have given me little supper parties, men only, with drinking &c. Of course we have great times. I have been several times to the Opera & to French theatre. The opera here, Maretzek's troupe,5 is very fine. Medori, soprano, is pretty near perfection   Mazzoleni, tenor, ditto   Biachi, base, ditto. Miss Kellogg is also good. The pieces were Lucrezia, Sonnambula, &c.6 Nelly, I have seen Charles Howells.7 He is well   apparently indeed better than he was in Washington (in health I mean). I have been at the place, 15 Charles street. In the parlor is hung up a large blue placard ""Headquarters of the Pantarchy"" in white letters. I did not stop to dinner, although I was prest hard. I saw a man named Newbold.8 Charles Howells is cheerful. We had quite a walk. He told me he was doing well in a business point of view, had made more while in New York than his salary would have been in Idaho. I did not see Mr nor Mrs Andrews.9 I did not make any demonstration upon Charles, except what was probably significant enough during the course of his flourishing & somewhat elaborated statement of the Pantarchian scheme which I listened to in dead silence, broken only by one or two running questions of a very brief & dry character. Charles was full of friendship & our interview was one in which he imprest me more agreeably than ever before. Surely he is a good man. The impression I received (maybe casual) is that he is partially absorbed there, his own yearning & eager nature supplying the fuel of the flame, but that he is really shrewd at bottom, & may prove more able to pick his way through the humbugs of the world than we were thinking. Nelly, I have seen Mrs Price, but not to have much true & friendly talk, as there were many present. She is much less well than I expected   has a hacking cough. She preserves the same quiet cheerful way   & her daughters   dear girls   they are all friends, to prize & love deeply. Nelly, if you go down to Armory Square   or if Mrs Howells should, (& if you feel well, & like going, I much wish you would very soon) please find if Pleasant Borley10 is living, he is in bed 40 in Ward A   tell him I am coming back soon, (or tell Miss Gregg,11 for him)   Also see James S Stilwell12 in Ward C, & Thomas Carson13 in same ward   also Lewis K Brown14 in Ward K, (I have sent him a long letter)   also Oscar Cunningham15 in Ward K   also tell Mrs Doolittle16 in Ward B, I want to see the boys there. I shall probably stay five or six days longer. I count on our all being together again. My head & hearing &c. are better yesterday & to-day than for two weeks   sometimes have been rather disagreeable. Well, Nelly, I will now bid you good bye for present, my truly dear friend, & good bye to the rest, & God bless you all.17 Walt Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00215.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Charles W. Eldridge ,","Nov 17, 1863",0.192710458316,"  Brooklyn |  Nov 17, 1863  Dear friend1 I suppose Nelly has received a letter from me posting you up of my doings, &c. Any letters that come to me, up to Saturday next, please send on here. After that, do not send any, as I shall return Monday or Tuesday next. The weather here the last three days is very unpleasant, sloppy & thick. I was at the opera last night, Trovatore2   very, very good singing & acting    I feel to devote myself more to the work of my life, which is making poems. I must bring out Drum Taps. I must be continually bringing out poems   now is the hey day. I shall range along the high plateau of my life & capacity for a few years now, & then swiftly descend. The life here in the cities, & the objects, &c of most, seem to me very flippant & shallow somehow since I returned this time    My New York boys are good, too good   if I staid here a month longer I should be killed with kindness   The great recompense of my journey here is to see my mother so well, & so bravely sailing on amid many troubles & discouragements like a noble old ship   My brother Andrew is bound for another world   he is here the greater part of the time    Charley, I think sometimes to be a woman is greater than to be a man   is more eligible to greatness, not the ostensible article, but the real one. Dear comrade, I send you my love, & to William & Nelly, & remember me to Major [Hapgood]3    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00152.html," Letter from Livingston J. Brooks to Walt Whitman ,","Nov 21, 1863",0.193254453964, Dear Friend Well uncle I thought I would scratch off a few lines to you to let you know that I am well at present and I hope the few lines will find you the same I have thought of you many a time since we parted I have been home since then and have got back with the regiment we have had some skirmishing and picketing to do since I got back we came off of picket yesterday and last night we got payed off and to day it is rainey and wet so it quite uncomfortable you must excuse my pen and ink well I wont write a great deal this time I intended to write to you before but we have been moving about so I aint had time well no more this time pleas answer this soon as you can my love to you   Co. B 17th Pa Cavalry  
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00941.html," Letter from Ellen M. O'Connor to Walt Whitman ,","Nov 21, 1863",0.193254453964,"  Sat. Nov. 21st 400 L Street  Dear Walt, Many thanks for your long good letter, which I am not going now to answer. I write at the request of Charlie Eldridge who said that he should be too busy to-day to do so, to tell you that he and Mrs. Cooper are to leave here either in the 8 A.M. or the 11 A.M. train on Monday next, for Philadelphia, and he is to remain at her house that night.1 They want you to leave New York so as to meet them, and stay at her house too. Her residence is No. 1429 Girard Avenue, between Broad & 15th Streets. Mrs. Cooper has been coaxing, persuading, begging, entreating, commanding even William to go on with them too, but he says he can't , & I know him well enough to know that she can't move him.2 She wants me to go on also, but I know that I shall not unless some strong pressure is brought to bear between now & Monday, for I can see that William does not want to spare me. They fully count upon seeing you. Charlie will remain at Mrs. C's till Tuesday evening. By the way   he got your letter, & was delighted with it, he said it was worthy to be set in a gold frame & to which Wm. & I assented most heartily. Dear Walt, we long for you, William sighs for you, & I feel as if a large part of myself were out of the city,   I shall give you a good big kiss when you come, so depend upon it. My love to your good, noble mother, whom I shall some day know. Kiss her for me   & tell her that I love her boy Walt. I want to see those splendid children too. But I shall some day. Good bye. Now more now, but if you are not back in a few days I will write you a good long letter, and answer yours fully. Oh! do you know that Mrs. Howells is in New York, has been there a week.3  With love from all    Yours Nelly.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00803.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Elijah Douglass Fox ,","Nov 21, 1863",0.193254453964,"  Brooklyn |  Saturday night Nov 21, '63  Dear son & comrade,2 I wrote a few lines about five days ago3 & sent on to Armory Square, but as I have not heard from it I suppose you have gone on to Michigan. I got your letter of Nov 10th,4 & it gave me much comfort. Douglass, I shall return to Washington about the 24th, so when you write direct to care of Major Hapgood, paymaster U S A, Washington D. C.   Dearest comrade, I only write this, lest the one I wrote five days ago may not reach you from the hospital. I am still here at my mother's, & feel as if [I] have had enough of going around New York   enough of amusements, suppers, drinking, & what is called pleasure   Dearest son, it would be more pleasure if we could be together just in quiet, in some plain way of living, with some good employment & reasonable income, where I could have you often with me, than all the dissipations & amusements of this great city   O I hope things may work so that we can yet have each other's society   for I cannot bear the thought of being separated from you   I know I am a great fool about such things, but I tell you the truth, dear son. I do not think one night has passed in New York or Brooklyn when I have been at the theatre or opera or afterward to some supper party or carouse made by the young fellows for me, but what amid the play or the singing, I would perhaps suddenly think of you   & the same at the gayest supper party, of men, where all was fun & noise & laughing & drinking, of a dozen young men, & I among them, I would see your face before me in my thought as I have seen it so often there in Ward G, & my amusement or drink would be all turned to nothing, & I would realize how happy it would be if I could leave all the fun & noise & the crowd & be with you   I don't wish to disparage my dear friends & acquaintances here, there are so many of them & all so good, many so educated, traveled, &c., some so handsome & witty, some rich &c., some among the literary class   many young men   all good   many of them educated & polished, & brilliant in conversation, &c5   & I thought I valued their society & friendship   & I do, for it is worth valuing   But, Douglass, I will tell you the truth, you are so much closer to me than any of them that there is no comparison   there has never passed so much between them & me as we have   besides there is something that takes down all artificial accomplishments, & that is a manly & loving soul   My dearest comrade, I am sitting here writing to you very late at night   I have been reading   it is indeed after 12, & my mother & all the rest have gone to bed two hours ago, & I am here alone writing to you, & I enjoy it too, although it is not much, yet I know it will please you, dear boy   If you get this, you must write & tell me where & how you are. I hope you are quite well, & with your dear wife, for I know you have long wished to be with her, & I wish you to give her my best respects & love too. Douglass, I haven't written any news, for there is nothing particular I have to write. Well, it is now past midnight, pretty well on to 1 o'clock, & my sheet is most written out   so, my dear darling boy, I must bid you good night, or rather good morning & I hope it may be God's will we shall yet be with each other   but I must indeed bid you good night, my dear loving comrade, & the blessing of God on you by night & day, my darling boy.6 "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00942.html," Letter from Ellen M. O'Connor to Walt Whitman ,","Nov 24, 1863",0.1936624507,"  No. 400 L St. Nov. 24 1863  Dear Walt, Mrs. Cooper and Mr. Eldridge left yesterday morning as they intended, and as you see by this I did not go.1 I hardly think that you did either, so I will venture to send to you. I have some news to tell you. Mr. Howells came home with his wife last Saturday from New York.2 He has decided not to go to Idaho, and does not know yet what he will do. But he says he shall have no trouble in making it all right with the Government. About the other matter I do not know any more. I agree with you Walt, that in time he must see right through those people, & if it were not for the suffering it causes his wife, I should by all means say, let him go there, see them, be with them and live it out. Perhaps it is the only thing to do any way. Time will prove that. How I long to see you. Are you going to be here by Thursday, Thanksgiving! I wish I knew, for I would get a good big turkey and we would have a jolly time. I miss Mrs. C. very much. By the way, when you return to Washington if it is not too much out of your way, will you stop at Mrs. Cooper's and get a small parcel she is to have ready for me? It will save the expressage, and if you can do so without too much trouble I shall be very glad. She wants you to stop very much, and you would have a good time, & see Mr. & Mrs. Louis her brother & sister both of whom are great admirers of yours. I enjoyed your letter very much, did I tell you so in my note? I am better of my cough, which has been very bad, and I shall do well I have no doubt, but I get very tired of being half well, I would like to be in perfect health like you   how splendid it is! You ought to do grand things with such a grand body. I am sorry to hear such poor accounts of your brother Andrew   I hoped you would find him better. But for your mother's good health and vigor I rejoice with you. It must be a compensation for all to see her so nobly bearing up. You are rich indeed in having such a noble, grand mother. I hope I shall know her sometime, also your sister Martha & all. Are they going to let you name the baby California? She is a fine baby, I am sure. Your boys there will hold on to you till the last minute I know, and how they will miss you. I quite envy you the Opera, I wish I were there with you for a week to go around. Would we not have some good times? I am sure we would. Have you seen Mrs. Price any more?3 I hope you will, for I know she counted so much on seeing you. Last Sunday we were out walking & met the Count, the first time since you left.4 He immediately asked for you, & I told him where you were   he asked if you were coming back etc. & when I told him that I had heard & should write you, he said ""My Gott, I did not know that he was such a poet, tell him so, I have been trying every where to find him to tell him myself."" So you see. He said tell him he must write more poems. I wish that you were back here in your old room for my sake, for I miss you & shall. I should have gone to the Hospital today if it had not rained, and I shall go to-morrow I think, rain or shine. I could not very well while Mrs. Cooper was here, for we kept thinking that every day would be here last here. I count upon your return, and on our all being together much, very much this winter, and on some good talks, & good times reading your Drum Taps. You must publish that book. William very often wishes for your return and wants to see you.5 Good bye.  With love from us all. Your friend Nelly O'Connor.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00428.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 3, 1863",0.194886440908,"  Brooklyn, N. Y. December 3rd 1863 Dear brother Walt, I have just telegraphed to you that Andrew was dead.2 Poor boy he died much eaiser than one would have supposed. I do hope to God you will come on. I have been with him, Mary, Mother Mat and I, almost all the time since you left. Mary and I watched last night. He has been dying ever since Wednesday morning   full 24 hours   Poor Nancy, she takes it woful hard  Mary has acted like the best of women  It is very affecting to see Nancy and the children  Mattie did everything that she possibly could3  She watched with us till near 3oclk this morning  Andrew was very desirous of having us all around him when he died. The poor boy seemed to think that that would take nearly all the horror of it away. If you will come on I will try and give you the passage money. Mother and the rest take it very hard. I hope to get an answer by telegraph. Jeff"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/clc.00001.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Dr. Le Baron Russell ,","Dec 3, 1863",0.194886440908,"  Washington / Dec. 3d 18632  Dear Friend3, Your note4 with $20 from a friend, (formerly a Breckenridge democrat) came safe. Doctor, I have been away for a few days, but have now returned to remain here certainly for the winter & ensuing spring, & probably for two or three years. I feel much possessed with the wounded & sick soldiers   they have taken a powerful hold of me, & I am very happy among them   it is perhaps the greatest interchange of magnetism human relations are capable of   I have told you how young & how American they mostly are   so on my own account   I shall continue as a missionary among them as sure as I live   I shall continue for years   tell your friend that his mony is being distributed as mony or what little purchas I find appropriate for the men of all states   I reject none of course   not rebel wounded nor blacks, nor any when I find them suffering & dying   Doctor to the other friends that assisted me in Boston & to yourself, I send my regards & love  Walt Whitman  Care Major Hapgood Paymaster U.S.A.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00804.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to George Washington Whitman ,","Dec 6, 1863",0.195294437644,"  Washington |  Dec 6 '63  Dear brother,1 I sent you a letter four days ago that Andrew was gone at last, poor fellow. I have written to Han. I did not go on to Andrew's funeral, (I suppose it was yesterday)   but I am very very sorry now that I did not stay while I was home   I am well   Write when you can    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00137.html, Letter from William E. Vandemark to Walt Whitman,"Dec 7, 1863",0.195430436557," Dear Father I have wrten to yo some time a go and have not had answer as yet i donte know wat to think some times i think that yo have not received the letter  I hope wen those few lines reach you they will find yo well i am quite well my hip hurts me some friday i was exazamend by the beast of dockters i would not go in the invalid corps so they send me to my ridgement i am willing to go and try and do my duty thair and  if the Rebs hit me a gen all rite i will take up with it the wether is quite cold here now and we had a bout two inches snow here i suppose that i will be in elickzander [Alexandria] they cant put me in the invalid corps i think thair is to much humbug thair i have ben home sence i left Washington i wish yo would see dockter blis and have him to send my discriptive list to the sargent in charge for i hante ben paid in very neer six month and cant get paid without the discriptive list he will direct it to Dockter Smith, Sargent in charge Decam general-hospittle Davids Island N Y H pleas write and let me know how yo are geting a long and how the boys is gets a long tel them i am going to my ridgment agen i like the place very well thair is 22 pavilions and they are bilding all the time and a nice Church here and then other fixtures such as headquarters and the like of the church is the St pauls docktren to day was communeion i was up to see the site of corse well father we have had some splendid vicktorys and it maks me feel that i have confidence yet and hope that day will not be fare off we peace will be in our land once more may god grant us the blesing of a spedy peace at the same time not give the Rebs an inch of ground for war here after for father to think the lives that has ben lost in this war i suppose that god knows best in all things father i long to see yo and have good talk to yo a grate meny of the boys have gone to bedlous island but they will hardly leave thair this winter thair is lots of virmen that here they are hard cases i think well father i will hef to close now good by from Wm E Vandemark to his friend Walt Whitman please write "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00600.html," Letter from Elijah Douglass Fox to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 9, 1863",0.195702434381,   . . . Since coming here I have often thought of what you told me when I said to you I am certain I will come back to Washington. you said to me then that a gret many of the boys had said the same but none had returned. I am sorry it is so but after I had thought it over I concluded it would be better for me to go into some business that would be a periminent thing.   
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00348.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Dec 9, 1863",0.195702434381,"  Camp Pittman near London Ky.    Dec. 9th/63 Dear Mother I have just received a letter from Jeff, of Dec. 3d bringing the sorrowfull news of the death of Brother Andrew.1 I was somewhat prepared for the worst, by Walts letter of Dec. 1st but I still had strong hopes, that he would recover, and until I received Walts letter, I had no idea that Andrew was in any immediate danger. Mother I am very glad to hear that Mary has been down to see you, and was with poor Andrew during his last hours, and am very sory that Walt did not stay with you a few days longer.2 Jeff speaks of my trying for a leave of absence but I hardly think it would be of any use at present,  besides I dont know that I could do any good by comeing home, although I am very anxious to see you all. Mother I wish you or Jeff would write me a long letter giving the particulars about Andrews family and what Nancy3 proposes to do. Was Andrew burried at Cyprus Hill4 Cemetry. I would advise buying a plott of ground there if you have not done so already. Mother I do hope that you will bear up with your troubles, and not make yourself sick by worrying. Walt wrote me that Matty and all the rest of you were doing everything in the world that could be done for Andrew and it is some consolation to know, that he died surrounded by friends and relatives,5 who were anxious to make his last hours as comfortable as possible, while so many are dying (out here) with no one about them who seems to take the least interest in them. I yesterday received a letter from Walt,6 enclosing one from Hannah dated Nov 21st. Hannah seems to be much better now than when I last heard from her, and I hope to hear soon, of her coming home to pay you a long visit. Mother you see by this that we have moved from Crab Orchard,  we came on here last week,  this place is 38 miles from Crab Orchard, in the direction of Cumberland Gap. How long we will remain here, of course we dont know, but there is strong talk of our being ordered home to re organize and as nearly all of our men are anxious to re-enlist in the veteran Corps, I think that the chances are that we will be ordered home before many weeks. I sent you $150.00 by Addams Express a few days ago,  I was on to Lexington Ky. to Express the money for the men,7 and sent it from there, Mother dont be the least backward in useing the money for anything you want, and I know, you will do all, that is required for, Andrews Family  I dont feel like writing more to night, so good night dear Mother. Give my love to all G. W. Whitman I am in as good health as ever I was in my life "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00865.html," Letter from Benjamin Penhallow Shillaber to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 10, 1863",0.195838433293,"  Boston December 11, 1863 Walt Whitman     My dear sir    I went to the hospital in Pemberton Square yesterday and saw your friend Babbitt.2  I found him in a bad way.  For two months, he tells me, he has been unable to do any thing for himself on account of giddiness if he attempts to rise.  He therefor is confined to one position   poor fellow!   flat on his back, but is cheerful nevertheless, and on hearing your name he brightened up and gave me a warm welcome.  He was in Barre some time after his return from under your care, and among his friends he grew better   was able to go about; but the ride   some sixty miles, I think   so unsettled his nervous organization that for three weeks it seemed to him that he was still on the cars.  He has not sat up since.  He was very grateful for your interest, and his last words to me were   ""tell him to write to me.""  He cannot speak a loud word owing to his diseased throat.  He looks pretty well, however, and his hand was strong and honest when I shook it at parting.  His case I think a very painful one   how much harder than though he had gone into the battle and lost his life or a limb!  There seems a sort of hopelessness about this, and being unused to hospitals my feelings were far from cheerful, though I tried to say brave and encouraging things to him and uttered the customary platitudes   the ""Be thou clothed"" and ""Be thou fed"" formulas,   without giving a rag or a crumb else.  I asked if I could do anything for him.  He told me no, thanking me.  His thought seemed most on getting a letter from you. If you are in the Armory Hospital and inquire for Frank McDonald, Ward E., I believe you may say a kind word to a friend of mine. Hoping what I have written may interest you, I remain with much regard  Yours B.P. Shillaber  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00429.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 15, 1863",0.196518427853,"  Springfield Mass Dec 15th 1863 Dear Walt, I came up here to make some surveys and run some levels for a Mr Worthen1 who has been appointed to make an examination and report on supplying the city with water. I came up just a week ago to-day, went home on Sat. and returned again on Monday   yesterday. I shall probably get through this week  I found all home about as usual execpt Mat   she has not been very well since Andrew's death  The next day after Andrew's death   Friday the 6th2   an affair occured at home which has given me a great deal of anxiety   twas this  Hatty was down stairs   and Mat with the baby   Mother and Jess  in front of the stove was a chair upon which Mat had hung a diaper. Hattie commenced shoving the chair slowly toward the stove. Jess told her to stop   she kept on   he all at once jumped up and swore out at her, and said he would break her damn'd neck.   Mat, of course was bound to defend her child and   although trembling like a leaf with fright   she as bold as she could   told Jess to set down and let Hattie be   not to dare to lay his hand on her. Jess then turned from the child to Mat and swore that he would kill her.   said that she had been at him for a long time and now he would finish her  Mat thinking   a mistaken idea it proved   that by putting on a unfrightened and daring manner that she could ca[l]m him down she dared him to touch her or the child either. Jess essayed twice to get at her. Swore he would beat her brains out. Called her a damed old bitch   in the same breath added   ""not you Mother, not you""  Mother managed to keep Jess away till Mat got out of the room. Mat was over one hour in getting from the basement up to her rooms. She had an awful attack of the old complaint in her back and had to set down every few step[s]. When I got home she was not able to set up   there she was with her two children frightened almost to death but very lucky I came home quite early and still luckier we had an Irish girl to work that day so that Mat did not have any work to do. You may imagine when I got home and understood the condition of things I felt pretty [w]rathey. I went down stairs and Mother met me at the door and begged and prayed that I would say nothing to Jess   Andrews body laid just above us.   for her sake and hers alone I said but little.   Jess said that he didnt care a damn   &c. I at first thought that I would at once go out and get rooms and remove Mat and the babies away   but Mother said that it would kill her to part with Mat3   that she couldnt stand it and begged me not. Since that we dont allow Jess to come in our rooms,   or rather we only allow him to come when he has some errand for Mother. He seems to have qu[i]eted down,   but I still fear to trust him.   he is a treacherous cuss any way. Probably had I been home he would not have done anything of the kind but if he had, so help me God I would have shot him dead on the spot   And I must confess I felt considerably like it as it was. I love Mat as I love my life   dearer by far   and to have this infernal pup   a perfect hell-drag to his Mother   treat her so   threaten to brain her   call her all the vile things that he could think of   is a little more than I will stand  He says he dont know any better  he lies   he does know better. I wish to God he was ready to put along side of Andrew  There would be but few tears shed on my part I can tell you. All this occurred some 10 or 12 days ago and you see how I feel about the matter now. I hav'nt written you before because I was afraid to think about it. To think that the wretch should go off and live with an irish whore, get in the condition he is by her act and then come and be source of shortening his mothers life by years  As long as we keep him out of our rooms, I dont suppose that one need fear   at least immediately   of his doing any one any harm, there  but I feel a constant fear for Mother   she says that he has these kind of things quite often with her  calls her everything   and even swears that he will keel her over &c. Just at the time of this affair with Mattie, he had been unduly   I think   burdened with the babies Mat having her time engaged with Andrew till his death and then in fixing for the funeral   and with Andrew because up to the time of his death Andrew could not have the child about him   and after[ward] Nancy had [to] be out getting things to appear at the funeral. But no excuse can be given to going to such extreme measures as to frighten poor Mat so that she has not got over it yet   Now Walt aint there some way in which we can take this immense load from the life of Mother  It certainly is telling on her every hour   she is I think failing rapidly   and I am quite sure unless something is done [will] not live but a few years.   There are three of us, You George and I   and it seems as if we ought to be able to relieve Mother in a measure of this thing   if Jess is sick why we ought to put him in some hospital or place where he would be doctored  There certainly must be plenty of such places and it could'nt cost much. Suppose Mother dies  a place then will have to be found for both Ed and Jess and it seems to me as if it   so far at least as Jess is concerned [could] be done a little sooner, and I think thereby prolong Mothers life some years. As to Mother herself I should be perfectly willing   if she were so situated that it could be done   to take her and provide and do for her as long as she lives4   I think she has had trouble and care enough   Mat and I both would dearly love to do it. And I know it would be relief and pleasure to Mother. But now she seems to think that she must deny herself everything and devote her live to those two poor wretches.   Ed I dont mind so much because he could'nt help being what he is.   but Jess did to himself and made himself what he is   and I think is answerable for it. If things are left the same as now I think I shall get other rooms and move Mat and the Children, for I honestly fear to leave them in the same house with Jess   no more than I fear for Mother and willingly would I take her too.   If such a thing were possible. It will be a sad thing to leave her with them but I can't think I am doing my duty to my wife if I leave her in a place of such constant fear as her home is now. I suppose Mother wrote you an account of the affair.5 I hope she did. I wish you would write me as soon as you can and let me have your ideas about the matter Jeff"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00805.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Dec 15, 1863",0.196518427853,"  Washington |  Dec 15 1863  Dearest mother The last word I got from home was your letter written the night before Andrew was buried, Friday night, nearly a fortnight ago   I have not heard any thing since from you or Jeff1   Mother, Major Hapgood has moved from his office cor 15th st. & I am not with him any more   he has moved his office to his private room   I am writing this in my room 456 Sixth st   but my letters still come to Major's care, they are to be addrest same as ever, as I can easily go & get them out of his box   (only nothing need be sent me any time to the old office, as I am not there nor Major either   any thing like a telegraphic dispatch or express box or the like should be addrest 456 Sixth st, 3d story back room)    Dear mother, I hope you are well & in good spirits   I wish you would try to write to me every thing about home & the particulars of Andrew's funeral, & how you all are getting along   I have not rec'd the Eagle with the little piece in2   I was in hopes Jeff would have sent it   I wish he would yet   or some of you would   I want to see it   I think it must have been put in by a young man named Howard,3 he is now editor of the Eagle, & is very friendly to me    Mother, I am quite well   I have been out this morning early, went down through the market, it is quite a curiosity   I bought some butter, tea, &c   I have had my breakfast here in my room, good tea, bread & butter &c    Mother, I think about you all more than ever   & poor Andrew, I often think about him   Mother, write to me how Nancy & the little boys are getting along   I got thinking last night about little California   O how I wished I had her for an hour to take care of   dear little girl, I dont think I ever saw a young one I took to so much   but I mustn't slight Hattie   I like her too   Mother, I am still going among the hospitals, there is plenty of need, just the same as ever   I go every day or evening   I have not heard from George   I have no doubt the 51st is still at Crab Orchard4    Mother, I hope you will try to write   I send you my love, & to Jeff & Mat & all   so good bye, dear Mother    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00601.html," Letter from Bethuel Smith to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 16, 1863",0.196654426765, Dear friend I now take this opertunity to write to you after so long A time. you must excuse me for not writing sooner for I cold not get anny paper. I have received three letters from you since I wrote to you  we have had pretty hard times this fall but we are having it easyer now we are doing provo duty in Culpeper now but I dont now how long it will last there is some talk of braking up 4 Companies of the 2 Cav & I dont no but my Company will be one of them if it is we will go on recruiting servis that will be A good jok but I dont now as that will be the Case yet still I hope so I am well & harty & in good spirits  I have not heard from home in A long time I gess that they have for got that they have A son in the army it is about 2 O Clock at night now I am on gard sitting by A big fire   you must excuse my writing with A pencil for I cannot get pen & ink to write with   no more at present good by   Directions the same 
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00153.html," Letter from William E. Vandemark to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 16, 1863",0.196654426765, Dear brother and comrad I received a letter from yo this mornin dated the 13 and was very glad to hear from yo i am not very well i have good dele of pain in my hip and head i see by the tones of yiour letter that yo are not very well i hope by the time this letter reaches yo they may find yo well i know it is bad to loos a brother but the lord giveth and the lord taketh away an then we must all sooner or later give up this world    i had a few lines from home this morning my little girl is sick and i feeling bad to think that i cant see her now but my prays is that she may better soon  well father i am going to my ridgement i think the doctor marked so but i cant march we expect evry day to start for elickazandry [Alexandria] to the convalesent camp if i could get to the city i could get my discharge but i cant father i thank yo for seeing about my discriptave list for they owe me now six months pay and i want i very bad they paid all those that had thair discriptave lists the doctors here are meen for they have no feeing to a man father the wether is getting cold here now and i will be glad wen i get away from here i long to see yo and have a good talk with yo for yo have ben kind to me wen i Could not help my self and i hope the day may come wen i can do for yo some good in return for father you donte know how i do love you i donte know wy it is i am more attached yo than enny one that i was acquainted with  the papers gives us good news now conserning the war i hope theat peace may soone be proclaimed thair has been a grate many lives lost in the cruel war father i wish that yo would send yiour likenes and i will send yo mine & i wish that i could see yo i hope that i may soon see yo their is about 15 rebs here now they get all they want and the docters pays thair attention to the will the rebs  over our men like dogs now strange it is well it may be all for the best i hope they will turn thair corse before it is to late Deair father and Comrad i will close now good by and may god take care of yo and that we may soon meet from friend & son William Vandemark to  his comrad and father and friend 
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00876.html," Letter from John T. Trowbridge to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 21, 1863",0.197334421325,"  Boston December 21, 1863  Dear Walt, I am here at the bedside of your friend Babbitt2 in the Mason Hospital.  I read him your letter; and he wishes me to say to you that he would be glad to answer your letters to him if he was able.  He is in about the same condition he has been in for three months.  He wishes to go home to his friends in Barre, and could get his discharge, but Dr. Bliss,3 of the Armory Square Hospital, neglects to send on his descriptive list, although the surgeon here has written to him for it.  No doubt you can see to having it sent.  Mr. Babbitt's father, who has been out with the 53rd, is going out again, and he is anxious to get his son home before he leaves.  The descriptive list is the only thing necessary now to procure his discharge.  Your friend wishes you to see Dr. Bliss, and write to him what he says about it.  I shall come and see him whenever I come to town.  What he needs is sympathizing friends around him.  He is very lonesome lying here with no Walt Whitman to cheer him up. I have been to see about getting together a package of books for you, but the booksellers are so busy it will be several days before I can get them packed and sent.  Let me hear from you.  I write in haste with numb fingers   it is bitter cold here today.  Yours J. T. Trowbridge  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00138.html," Letter from Livingston J. Brooks to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 22, 1863",0.197470420237," Dear Friend I recieved your kind letter last night2 and was very happy to hear from you  I am quite well at present and I hope you are enjoying the same blessings. I was sory to hear of your brother death [December 3rd], but we have all got to die some day  This life is uncertain in this world. I have lived through sickness and dangers of war so far and I thank god for it. . we have had some lively times since I wrote to you our regt is doing picket now. the johneys has tryed our line a number of times there was about thirty of them the other day charged on our line there was one post with three men on it they got one of them but they lost four and had to skeddle  that was all they get Well Dear uncle you said you would like to be here for a change I wish you could be here for a while how I would like to see you but I live in hopes I may some day. Well you said Miss Marsh was in Ward J I dont know as she remember me but I do her how could I forget her if you see her pleas tell her I send my love and best wishes to her Dear Uncle how I should like to see the cappatol now it must look splendid Who would not fight for such a cappatol and those beautiful stars and stripes that may forever float over it those stars and stripes is what brought me in the army and I am willing to fight as long as I live before I would see any other flag float over our cappitol than the stars and stripes  but there is some that would like to see it trampled on the ground. I suppose you have herd that general buford was dead he was one good general as there was in the field he commanded our division and every one liked him. how is war matters in washington now any signs of it ever closing  I guess this next draft will be apt to bring in few more men in the army. Well Dear uncle there aint much news here at presant we are in very good quarters here, but how long we will stay I dont know. Well I will close by wishing you a mery mery Christmas and a happy New Years. Please excuse poor writing and accept this from your well wishing Friend and comrad "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/yal.00089.html," Letter from Alonzo S. Bush to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 22, 1863",0.197470420237,"   Friend Walt, Sir I am happy to announce the arrival of Your Kind and verry wellcom Epistel and I can assure you that the contents ware persued with all the pleasure immaginable. I am glad to Know that you are once more in the hotbed City of Washington So that you can go often and See that Friend of ours at Armory Square, L[ewis] K. B[rown].2 The fellow that went down on your BK, both So often with me. I wished that I could See him this evening and go in the Ward Master's Room and have Some fun for he is a gay boy. I am very Sorry indeed to here that after laying So long that he is about to loose his leg, it is to bad, but I Suppose that the Lords will must be done and We must submit. Walter I Suppose that you had a nice time while at Home. I am glad to report that I enjoyed my Self finely and had a gay time. Generaly I am now paying up for the good times I had at Armory Square & at Home. Just immagin that you see me at the dead Hour of night Standing picket on the Potomac looking to see how things are going on and pick up Deserters  it is amusing to See how Sly they are in getting over  they come on rafts logs & any thing that will bear there weight with oars muffled and as still as possible. And you may guess that they are Some what suppriz[ed] on landing to find an escort of the first Ind Cav waiting to See them Safe to Washington. We have caught over a hundred in the last 2 months. They all Seam to be flush with money and that goes to Show they are Sub[stitutes.] They come for money & not country. We have verry good Quarters and plenty of Grub. Our Shantys are of Logs and are very comfort[able.] Our Horses can not be beat for they are fat and in Splend[id] Condition our Stables are made of pine boughs and covered With Straw which turns rain and snow very well considering When off duty the boys enjoy them selves by Horse racing & Hunting Game is very plenty down Here ducks Quail Squirl & fox are the chief ones Coons & opoposms are als[o] humerous. We have a good pack of Hounds now and are training our Horses for a grand fox Hunt on the  25th of this month  I wish you and Some of the boys ware here to take a hand, as there will be fun, that you may depend on. I have been waiting for a comission Ever cince I came Here but as yet I have not Seen it. I expected to be in Washington before this on my way Home to get my rights, if I dont get it I will not come to Washington till the latter part of Jan or the first of Feb   and when I do come I will be sure to give you a call. I want you to give my best wishes to the Lady Nurse of Ward K also to W[ard] M[aster] Cate, Brown, Billy Clements, Miss Felton3 & all the rest... Please to tell them each & every one that I would like to write to them all but am So Situated that I can not but will call on them the first time I come up. Tell Miss Lowell that her kindness to the Solders undr her charge While I was there I never Shall forget and that I often think of the games we used to play Tell Miss Felton that I never will forget theWatter cooler of Ward P. and as there are some of my Friends that I have omited on account of names I hope you will as[k] Pardon in my behalf. tell Brown to remember me to Joseph of the Starr. Johny Strain my companion wishes to be remembred to all I am sorry to inform you that He met with another misfortune after he got Here he was thrown from his Horse and had his arm broken but is getting along very well at presant. My Love & best Wishes to all I will close Hoping to Here from you soon.   I remain your True Friend,  Alonzo Bush  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00139.html," Letter from Elijah Douglass Fox to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 24, 1863",0.197742418061,"   Dear Father & Comrade I received yours of Dec 17th [lost letter] and as always will be the case was glad to hear from you  I have delayed answering your last a day or two for this reason. I have been very busy and shall write but little this time as I must go once to a place called West Jersey about ten miles from here to see about buying a house and lot but do not think that because I write but little I am tired of writing to you or wish to stop corresponding with you for I know of no one's letters that are looked for and read with more interest than yours, now that Mary has come. She came down on tuesday  she is well though tired when she arrived  she sends her love to you give my respects to all friends and write soon I will write again soon yours ever   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00154.html," Letter from William E. Vandemark to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 25, 1863",0.197878416973," Dear father i now take the plesure of writing a few lines yo hoping they find yo well i am quite well and in the convalesent Camp i long to see yo and have a talk with yo thair hante inny news here we had a good dinner here to day father yo must excuse me for not writing a long letter for my hand trembls so that i cant write well father write to me and if yo can come and see me good by for this time from Wm E Vandemark to friend Walt Whitman i am in barick 43 Addres Camp Convalesint Elickazandry [Soldiers nicknamed Alexandria ""Camp Misery"".] "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/med.00304.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to John Townsend Trowbridge ,","Dec 27, 1863",0.198150414797,"  Washington |  Dec 27 1863  Dear friend,2 I have left word at the office Armory Square hospital about Caleb Babbitt's descriptive list.3 Poor boy, I should like much to see him & soothe him   I hope he will yet keep up his spirits. About the package of books, direct them to me, (if you should find convenient to send them) to Washington, 456 Sixth St north, 3d story back room   Should you see Mr. Shillaber4 tell him I see Frank McDonald every day or so   I saw him last evening, saw his wound and examined it   he still lies constantly in bed   The wound is not in a very favorable way, yet nothing really serious   Mr. S must write and send papers to him &c, often as convenient   I am well & in hospitals every day   So, dear friend, good bye for present    Walt Whitman. Address care Major Hapgood, paymaster U. S. A., Washington D. C. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00155.html," Letter from Margaret Stilwell to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 28, 1863",0.198286413709, Mr Whitman Dear frind we are very grateful to you for the kindness you have Showed and Still Show to James2 our Dear Son and i Dont know how to Express our thanks or gratitude to you unless by writing a few lines to you and by So Doing we can tell you but little of the feelings of our hearts towards you for the intrest you have taken in My family not only in writing for James and Spending your time in talking and reading for him but you have taking a deep interest in our affliction by writing to us and to the rest of this family and i hope the good lord will reward you for all your kindness you have Showed to James and to all his friends and when i Say i hope the lord will reward you for your kindness i have Every reason to believe that he will for his word teach us that no kind act Shall go unrewarded for he that is too wise to err and too good to Do wrong has promised to bless in the Deed and May the lord of glory bless you and May he long Spare your life to be a blessing to your Mother and the rest of your famly and to your fellow creatures you have been More than a brother to James and his Sister and to us his parents More than a Son and we thank you from our hearts we often hear the word Made use of a frind in need is a frind indeed and that frind you have been to James and to his family and i sincerely hope that in the time of need you will find the Same frind or frinds that you have been to Me and Mine and when the last Closing scene of life Shall come and you have Done all that god required of you then May you have that frind that sticketh closer than a brother to rest your head upon and breath your life our Sweetly there and May we all find a frind in the frind of Siners when we come Die both parents and children brothers and Sisters but i Shall tire your patience i was to My Daughters when She got your letter and we was glad and thankful to hear from James through you and to hear as Much about his wound and how he was going if it is Slow and i Still ask you to be a father and a Mother to him and advise him for the best and when it will Do for him to come home that he wont run nor risk of giting cold alltho i expect the time Seem very long to him but he Might better wait a little longer than he would too then be in danger of geting cold for i expect his leg is bad yet and worse than we think it is Dear frind i would Still ask you to Spend what time you can Share with James and the other Sick boys and May the lord bless you and Make you happy while you are imparting happiness to others and May heaven bless you in your labour of love to your fellow Man   farewell Dear frind May god bless you is the Sincere wish of your frind  
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00430.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 28, 1863",0.198286413709,"  Copake, Columbia County, N.Y. December 28th/63 Dear brother Walt, My last letter to you was dated from Springfield Mass. I went home on Sat. and had an oportunity to come up here and make some surveys for an Iron Company. I shall probably be kept here all this week and possibly part of next  About the Eagle that had the little squib in about you.1 I have not had much of an opportunity to try to get one to send you. I have not been able to get to the Eagle office, but tried at a number of the paper stores and could not get it. As soon as I get home I will go to the office and get one if I can, if not I will copy from their file the piece and send you. Walt there is no disposition not to get it, to send you or any unwillingness to take some trouble in the matter, but I have been so very busy the little time that I have been in Brooklyn that I really could not have time to go down to their office. Of course I have had to keep my work up in Brooklyn just the same as if I had not been away,   had to work day and night sundays and all, hardly had time to go home to see Mat. and the babies  The fact of the matter is that I am a little overdoing the thing and if it was going to continue long should stop it but as I had this opportunity to make a little extra I felt as if I must tax myself a little. For instance I got to Brooklyn at 12ock Thursday night, went to the office early on Friday morning and I hardly left it till abt. 10ckon Sunday night. I tell you last night I felt the thing pretty bad.   In the early part of this month Mr Kirkwood2 sent me $5 to send you but I have been pretty hard up and had to use it. I will get some money as soon as I get back to Brooklyn again and will send it to you then.   When I wrote you last I was in rather a high state of excitement in regard to Jess and probably wrote rather strong   but I felt very angry and bad I can tell you. Mat has even hardly yet got over the trouble in her back, and altogether it was a mean dirty thing for Jess to do, for I know he knows better. You wrote Mother abt getting Jess in the Asylum   It does not seem to meet with her wishes.3 When I wrote you my idea was that by each of us paying   say a $ a week   you and I and George  that we could keep him in some one of the Hospitals around New York   I think it would be best yet. Can you, from your intimacy with the doctors around Washington, get any information in regard to the matter. I have had several talks with Ruggles4 abt the thing and [he] says that there might be such a thing as it curing him.   helping him anyway  but I feel as if it was our duty to relieve Mother of him   I still feel very nervous abt leaving him with them at home, with Mother, Mat and the babies, for I think he would be guilty of anything when the fits of passion and devilment are on him   he is certainly not to be trusted.   I have made several enquires and am told that he could be put in Hospital and have things all done for him at at $15 per month. I am sure that it would not be much and it would add many years to Mother's life I know. Mother seems to me to act foolish abt. the thing   for instance she won't come up in our rooms because she cant bring Jess along   I will not allow him to come there  consequently it amounts to keeping Mother out. I feel mightly unpleasant abt it I can tell you   downhearted   dispirited   and matters dont go quite so pleasant at home as they used to. Mother thinks that we are foolish   I think I am right  Dont understand me that either I or Mat have any enmity against Jess   for its not so. Mat speaks and acts towards him as she always has done, better I think than any other person on earth would after the affair of that Friday   Walt let us try and see if we cant get him in some place that Mother and Mat wont feel so bad about as they would if he was sent to the Asylum. I think it is a duty to our Mother for her comfort and indeed for her safty and of course I have another stake in my wife and children. For the safty of all of them I want that we should do it. Dont you think it could be done Well Walt here I am abt 110 miles from New York, up in the Harlem and New York R. R. just on the edge of the state of Mass. among a mass of high mountains and deep valleys. The night is one of the wildest that I ever remember, the wind is blowing a gale, the snow and sleet and rain by turns come plashing against the windows. I am boarding at an old fashioned country house (I learn from a book on the table that it is the ""Hon. Peter Kissenbrack"" of the state Legislature of /62[)]5 as comfortable quarters as I ever enjoyed   good living good fire   good rooms and good bed   clever old dutch-fashioned American people. I've just been drinking some good cider and eating some fine apples. Everything thing is as comfortable and country like. Did you hear of the death of James Ward,6 Jennie [DeBevoise's?]7 husband, a most singular case and very sudden. I suppose that Mother has written you abt. it. That iron-clad that sunk at Charleston drownded one of my intimate friends H. W. Merian8 as splendid a young man as ever lived. Do you remember I introduced you to him at Pfaffs9 a long time ago. He had a large circle of friends in Brooklyn, was the only son and almost worshipped by his family.  He was in my party on the line and was my room-mate for a year. I felt pretty bad when I heard he was dead. Probasco10 I see every few days, that is when I am in Brooklyn  The other evening he came in the office, asked me how Andrew left his widow. I told him almost destitute. he handed me $10 and told me to give her that. I thought it wonderful generous for one who hardly had ever seen Andrew. He said $5 of it was from Tom Tweedy,11 the Gent we saw at his store the one that gave you the hat. Abt a week ago one of the men in the department that Andrew was in in the navy yard came and gave Nancy $30 saying that they had raffled off Andrews chest of that tools at that price, so as she had considerable money I did not yet give her the $10 (indeed I have had to use some of it) but will give it to her the first of next week   Nancy is abt the same as ever   she seems to have no idea of getting along   she says she would work if she had it   but no idea of getting it. Mat has been trying to get her some and I think will succeed in a few days Matters and things around the office are the same as usual. Mr Lane12 is as kind as anyone could well be   the Dr comes in every day for a short time, and things looked jolly enough around there the few days I was home. There is some talk that Sam. Powell13 will be made Water Com. I hope so. I should consider it a good thing for me  About my coming to Washington, do you think you could get the pass. if so I will surely come on. try for it wont you.   Kingsley14 is very sick. Ruggles is tending him. Kingsley also has a little girl just lying at the point of death   a very painful affair    Otherwise that I have spoken of things are all quite well at home. When I was at Springfield Mother had a very hard time, but almost recovered from it. Mother works too hard  I hope we can arrange it so that she wont have to always. Let me hear from you   I shall be at home, I think the first of next week    affectionately Jeff"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00156.html," Letter from William E. Vandemark to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 29, 1863",0.198422412621," Dear father to day i received a letter from yo and i was glad to here from yo i am not very well and have not ben for some time i have pain in my head and breast i think the clorform that i have taken is the caus of it my hip is very painful to day i was exasamend i think that i will go before the board in a day or two i may get my discharge i have hurd that my ridgement is going home for the winter to recruit thair is only 17 men left inny more for duty father i long to see yo and have a talk with yo i will try and get a pas to go to Washington to see yo after i have ben before the board for another exsamanation father i hope yo had a good time a Crismis & i hope yo en Joyed yiour Self wat a blessed privelge it is to be so that we can en Joy the privelage wile some are on beds of sickness and have ben cut off in their youth    dear father i wish yo a happy new yrs and a good time i will try and get a pas to come and see yo next friday i hante sure of getting one yet but i will try to get one   i like this place very well here i will never go to new york agin on a trans bus for they use men thair worse than dogs i would have done better if i had staid in washington  they know how to use men thair and how to tak cair of them wen i see yo i will tel yo all I think the war is nearly ended now I hope it is at all events, for thair has been men enuf lost on both sides in one war how many widows and orphans it has caused all ready   i wish that i could get detailed in washington at some thing that i coud do i woud be very glad and would try to do my duty   father let me Know how things gets a long in army squair tel crain that hante had answer from the letter that i sent him and i would like to here from him i have seen hathford wen i was home and had a talk with him he is all rite now father i will close good by dear father and friend from a friend William E Vandermark to a dear friend Walt Whitman good by "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/med.00321.html," Letter from John T. Trowbridge to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 30, 1863",0.198558411533,"  Somerville, Mass., Dec. 30, 1863.  My dear Walt. I found I could get nothing but promises from the booksellers for the present, so I sent you today a package of such books as I could pick from my own shelves, together with some newspapers   a variety in which I hope you will find a few things to suit your purpose. (Per Adams Ex., prepaid.) I can send you more newspapers   and perhaps more books   in a few days, if you wish for another bundle. I have no copy of Jackwood, and could not get one here, or I would have sent it. A new edition will be out soon, when I will see that you get a copy. You will find in the package two copies of the Drummer Boy, one of which I wish you would leave at Mr. Chase's. I got your letter yesterday. The day before I went to see your friend, Babbitt, whom I found apparently much improved, certainly brighter   perhaps he was getting better acquainted with me, and perhaps because his descriptive list had come, and he was expecting to be taken away yesterday by his friends; or it may be he is really better. He felt that the list came through your influence, and appeared very grateful to you for it. The word you sent I have forwarded to Shillaber.2 Good-bye, my dear friend, and may the good angels help you in your good work.  J. T. Trowbridge.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00431.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Jan 8, 1864",0.199782401741,"  Brooklyn, Jan 8th 1864 Dear Walt, The enclosed $5 is from Mr James P. Kirkwood1 and is the money spoken of in my letter from Copake.2 The other $1 is from John D. Martin.3 I mailed you some 3 or 4 Unions4 to-day directed to the care of major Hapgood5 as usual At home everything is going along abt as usual, all abt the same. A few days ago there came to the house for you the proof sheets of a small book which the author (no name given) wants you to read and give an opinion on  the Circular you find within. The stuff itself is disgusting, the whole of it going to prove that the nigger is better than the white which the fool says over and over again6   do you want it sent on to you. affectionately Jeff."
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00157.html," Letter from William H. Millis Sr. to Walt Whitman ,","Jan 9, 1864",0.199918400653,"   Friend Whitting, Sir, We received your kind and welcome letter inquiring for my boy Billy and in reply will say that Billy is or was getting along first rate when we heard from him last he is in Washington employed in hospital as night watch. I write to him to day and send him your letter doubtless he will write to you forthwith I feel very much indebted to you for your kindness and greatly honored to answer your letter or as many as you may write. Billy come home in July the first of the month and stayed till the 10th of November when he went back and got employment. He has so far recovered as to able to attend to the duties of night watch he has not got the use of his arm fully but will I hope in the course of time Billy is a right good boy I believe, you must write again and I will answer with pleasure   yours with Due respect  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00158.html," Letter from Thomas P. Sawyer to Walt Whitman ,","Jan 21, 1864",0.201550387597,"   Dear Brother Walter, As I have just written to Lewis I thought I would try and pen you a few lines hooping that they will [find] you in the best of health and enjoying your self   and I wish I was there with you.2 Dear brother I hardly know what to say to you in this letter for it is my first one to you but it will not be my last I should have written to you before but I am not a great hand at written and I have ben very buisy fixing my tent for this winter and I hope you will forgive me and in the future I will do better and I hope we may meet again in this world and now as it is getting very late you must ecuse this short letter this time   and I hope to here from [you] soon. I send you my love and best wishes. Good by from   Your Brother,  Sergt Thomas P Sawyer  P.S.  if I knew your addrss I should not send it this Way. Good by Brother.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00807.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jan 29, 1864",0.202638378893,"  Washington |  Friday afternoon Jan 29 1864  Dear Mother Your letter of Tuesday night came this forenoon   the one of Sunday night I rec'd yesterday   Mother, you don't say in either of them whether George has re-enlisted or not   or is that not yet decided positively one way or the other?1 O Mother, how I should like to be home, (I dont want more than two or three days)   I want to see George, (I have his photograph on the wall, right over my table all the time)   & I want to see California   you must always write in your letters how she is   I shall write to Han this afternoon or to-morrow morning, & tell her probably George will come out & see her, & that if he does you will send her word beforehand    Jeff, my dear brother, if there should be the change made in the works & things all overturned, you mustn't mind   I dare say you will pitch into something better   I believe a real overturn in the dead old beaten track of a man's life, especially a young man's, is always likely to turn out best, though it worries one at first dreadfully    Mat, I want to see you most sincerely   they havn't put in anything in the last two or three letters about you, but I suppose you are well, my dear sister    Mother, the young man that I took care of, Lewis Brown,2 is pretty well, but very restless   he is doing well now, but there is a long road before him yet   it is torture for him to be tied so to his cot, this weather   he is a very noble young man, & has suffered very much   he is a Maryland boy, & (like the southerners when they are union,) I think he is as strong & resolute a union boy as there is in the United States   he went out in Maryland reg't but transferred to a N Y battery   But I find so many noble men in the ranks, I have ceased to wonder at it   I think the soldiers from the New England States & the Western states are splendid, & the country parts of N Y & Pennsylvania too   I think less of the great cities than I used to   I know there are black sheep enough, even in the ranks, but the general rule is the soldiers are noble, very    Mother, I wonder if George thinks as I do about the best way to enjoy a visit home, after all   When I come home again, I shall not go off gallivanting with my companions half as much, nor a quarter as much as I used to, but shall spend the time quietly home with you, while I do stay   it is a great humbug spreeing around, & a few choice friends for a man, the real right kind, in a quiet way, are enough    Mother, I hope you take things easy, dont you? Mother, you know I was always advising you to let things go, & sit down & take what comfort you can while you do live    It is very warm here, this afternoon it is warm enough for July   the sun burns where it shines on your face   it is pretty dusty in the principal streets   Congress is in session, I see Odell,3 Kalbfleisch,4 &c. often   I have got acquainted with Mr Garfield,5 an M C from Ohio, & like him very much indeed   (he has been a soldier west, was a Major General & I believe a good brave one)   I don't go much to the debates this session yet   Congress will probably keep in session till well into the summer   as to what course things will take, political or military, there's no telling   I think though the secesh military power is getting more & more shaky   how they can make any headway against our new, large & fresh armies next season passes my wit to see    Mother, I was talking with an (pretty high) officer, here, who is behind the scenes   I was mentioning that I had a great desire to be present at a first class battle   he told me if I would only stay around here three or four weeks longer, my wish would probably be gratified   I asked him what he meant, what he alluded to specifically   but he would not say any thing further   so I remain as much in the dark as before   only there seemed to be some meaning in his remark, & it was made to me only as there was no one else in hearing at the moment   (he is quite an admirer of my poetry)    The re-enlistment of the veterans is the greatest thing yet, it pleases every body but the rebels   & surprises every body too    Mother, I am well & fat, (I must weigh about 206)   So Washington must agree with me   I work three or four hours a day copying   Dear mother, I send you & Hattie my love, as you say she is a dear little girl   Mother, try to write every week, even if only a few lines   love to George & Jeff & Mat    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00380.html, Letter from Walt Whitman to Dr. Le Baron Russell,"Feb 0, 1864",0.202910376717," The hospitals here in & around Washington are still pretty full, and contain in some respects the most needy cases of all the suffering   (though there are plenty such every where.) For the past few weeks I have been on a tour down to the front, through the division hospitals, especially those around Culpepper & Brandy Station, mostly of the 1st, 2d, & 3d corps, to see how the sick were situated there. A year ago I spent December & part of January2 (after 1st Fredericksburgh) among the wounded in front from Aquia Creek to Falmouth, and saw perhaps the saddest scenes of the war then. But there is nothing like it now. I have made up my mind that the camp hospitals are pretty well cleaned out, the worst cases are here in Washington, & so I have returned here for good.3 In the field hospitals I find diarrhea, getting more & more prevalent, & chronic. It is the great disease of the army. The doctors, as always, give too much medicine, & hold on to the poor young men in camp too long, then when the thing is deeply rooted, send them up here. How many such wrecks of young men have I seen, from boat & railroad, from front, come crawling pale & faint along here, many to linger a while, & die, during the past year, sent up in this way after being kept too long. I suppose you will be interested in knowing that our troops in the field in Virginia are this Winter remarkably well in health, however, as a general thing & in the cheeriest temper. They have better houses than ever before, no shelter tents now, but huts of logs & mud, with fireplaces. In the tour I allude to, I was much in contact with the rank in file, lived among them in their camps, among the common soldiers & teamsters, &c. I never go among the Army in this way, but what, after making all allowances, I feel that our general stock of young men shows all other races, meagre & pale & puny in comparison. The more I see of them in the Army, the higher & broader my estimate of them. (I mean the Americans, I dont make account of any other   Americans both West & East, & from all the agricultural regions of the great states). And then to be among them also as I have been for past fifteen months, among them, seeing them in hospitals, thousands, so young & manly, with such fearful suffering, wounds, amputations, & weary sickness. O how one gets to love them   indeed it brings people very, very close, such circumstances. As to the temper of the Army in Virginia, I should say it was never so resolute, so full of the right spirit for endurance & work as it is to-day. The filled-up regiments, gathering around the nucleus of the old veterans, make better regiments than any. I was with several such, & found them excellent. These re-enlisted regiments, returning from their furloughs, thus filled up, are streaming down to front fast already. The opinion of Meade is full of respect for him   he is thought an earnest, alert, concientious, cautious commander. I write these, doctor, thinking they may interest you, coming from late direct contact with the army on the ground. So, doctor, I still remain here in Washington, occupying my time nearly altogether among the wounded & sick, as when I last wrote you.4 I act as an independent visitor & helper among the men, fixing as before on the cases that most need. I never miss a single day or night, week day or Sunday, visiting some poor, young soul in bodily & mental tribulation. It is a great privilege to me, more to me than to them I think. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00159.html," Letter from Thomas B. Neat to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 2, 1864",0.203182374541," My Dear Friend Walter I now take my pen to Write you a few lines to let you know that I am Well and I hope that these few lines Will find you the same it has rained hear for the last three or fore days, but it is clear now and looks pleasant and Cavalry is laying still now and I am at the General Head Quarters and I have grand times nothing to do but eat and drink. I am Well pleased but When Spring opens We Will have enof to do I think that this summer is agoing to settil this War I am Willing to do my part of fighting and old Abe has called for more men and that Will help us and We can Wipe the Cavalry if mead Will lookout for the infantry the rebs is coming over the river every day thair Was tow here about a hour ago I donot know of enithing more to Write so no more at present from your true friend PS excuse poor Writing  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00808.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Feb 2, 1864",0.203182374541,"  Washington |  Feb 2 1864  Dearest Mother, I am writing this by the side of the young man you asked about, Lewis Brown,1 in Armory Square hospital   He is now getting along very well indeed   The amputation is healing up good, & he does not suffer any thing like as much as he did. I see him every day. We have had real hot weather here, & for the last three days wet & rainy   it is more like June than February    Mother, I wrote to Han, last Saturday   she must have got it yesterday   I have not heard any thing from home since a week ago, (your last letter)   I suppose you got a letter from me Saturday last   I am well as usual   there has been several hundred sick soldiers brought in here yesterday    I have been around among them to-day all day   it is enough to make one heart-sick, the old times over again   they are many of them mere wrecks, though young men   (sickness is worse in some respects than wounds)   one boy2 about 16, from Portland, Maine, only came from home a month ago, a recruit, he is here now, very sick & downhearted, poor child, he is a real country boy, I think has consumption   he was only a week with his reg't   I sat with him a long time   I saw [it] did him great good   I have been feeding some their dinners   it makes me feel quite proud, I find so frequently I can do with the men what no one else at all can, getting them to eat, (some that will not touch their food otherwise, nor for any body else)   it is sometimes quite affecting I can tell you   I found such a case to-day, a soldier with throat disease, very bad   I fed him quite a dinner   the men, his comrades around, just stared in wonder, & one of them told me afterwards that he (the sick man) had not eat so much at a meal, in three months   Mother, I shall have my hands pretty full now for a while   write all about things home    Walt    Lewis Brown says I must give you his love   he says he knows he would like you if he should see you    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00809.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Feb 5, 1864",0.203590371277,"  Washington |  Friday afternoon Feb 5  Dearest Mother I am going down in front, in the midst of the Army, to-morrow morning, to be gone for about a week1   so I thought I would write you a few lines now, to let you know    Mother, I suppose you got my letter written last Tuesday   I have not got any from home now for a number of days   I am well & hearty   the young man Lewis Brown is able to be up a little on crutches   there are quite a number of sick young men, I have taken in hand, from the late arrivals, that I am sorry to leave   sick & downhearted & lonesome, they think so much of a friend, & I get so attached to them too   but I want to go down in camp once more very much   & I think I shall be back in a week   I shall spend most of my time among the sick & wounded in the Camp hospitals   if I had means I should stop with them, poor boys, or go down among them periodically, dispensing what I had, as long as the war lasts, down among the worst of it   (although what are collected here in hospital, seem to me about as severe and needy cases as any after all)    Mother, I want to hear about you all,2 & about George & how he is spending his time home   Mother, I do hope you are well & in good spirits & Jeff & Mat & all, & dear little California & Hattie   I send them all my love   Mother, I may write to you from down in front   so good bye, dear mother, for present    Walt I hope I shall find several letters waiting for me when I get back here    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/med.00305.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to John Townsend Trowbridge ,","Feb 8, 1864",0.203998368013,"  Culpepper Va. |   Feb 8 1864  Dear friend,1 I ought to have written to you before, acknowledging the good package of books, duly received by express, & actively used since, changing them around in places where most needed among the soldiers   (I found a small hospital of U. S. teamsters, entirely without reading, I go there considerable, & have given them largely of your reading contribution)   I am down here pretty well toward the extreme front of the Army, eight or ten miles south of headquarters, (Brandy Station)   We had some fighting here, below here on picket lines, day before yesterday   We feared they, the rebs, were advancing upon us in our depleted condition, especially feared their making a flank movement up on our right. We were all ready to skedaddle from here last night, & expected it   horses harnessed in all directions, & traps packed up, (we have held & lost Culpepper three or four times already)   but I was very sleepy & laid down & went to sleep, never slept fresher or sweeter   but orders came during the night to stay for the present, there was no danger   during the night I heard tremendous yells, I got up & went out, & found it was some of the men returning from the extreme front   As day before yesterday a strong force, three corps, were moved down there   These were portions of them now returning   it was a curious sight to see the shadowy columns coming in two or three o'clock at night   I talked with the men   how good, how cheerful, how full of manliness & good nature our American young men are   I staid last night at the house of a real secesh woman, Mrs. Ashby   her husband (dead) a near relation of the famous reb Gen Ashby2   she gave me a good supper & bed   There was quite a squad of our officers there   she & her sister paid me the compliment of talking friendlily & nearly altogether exclusively with me   she was dressed in very faded clothes but her manners were fine, seems to be a travelled educated woman   quite melancholy   said she had remained through fearful troubles & changes here on acct of her children   she is a handsome middle-aged woman   poor lady, how I pitied her, compelled to live as one may say on chance & charity, with her high spirit    Dear friend, I am moving around here among the field hospitals   (O how the poor young men suffer)   & to see more of camp life & war scenes, & the state of the army this winter   Dear friend, I have much to tell you, but must abruptly close    Walt Whitman Write to me same address Washington, D. C.   has Caleb Babbitt gone home from Mason Hospital   I left the book at Mr. Chase's3    J. T. Trowbridge, / Somerville, Massachusetts. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00140.html," Letter from Alonzo S. Bush to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 11, 1864",0.204406364749,"   Friend Walter, Sir accordain to promis I now embrace this opportunity of informing you of my Safe arrival at Hed Quarters of 1st Ind Cav. My Friends gave me a warm reception Such as how are you Bush got robed did you &c I told them how it came to pass and how much I lost and finely that Washington was a hard place  I tell you that Hoosiers are a fraid of thieves and murders and it made them open their eyes when they found out that I had been bit. Well I feel at home here and dont think I will come to the city untill I am muster out for good Everything is lovely down here and the goose hangs high the weather has been pretty cold cince I came back and therefor we have had no hunt as yet. I was just in time for the boat. I had the pleasure of meeting my Capt G. Lutt so I was not alone had quite a nice time told them how long I had been in city and what kept me you ought to here them laugh at me for not being sharper   I told them it would be all right in cours of time live & learn is my moto. Walter I told that friend of mine about you and he thinks he will like you very much   I showed him your Photograph. he liked it very much. Walter tell Benedict & Brown not to forget me and not send there to me.2 There is nothing going on here at presant and I have nothing to write every thing is same day after day no changes. We have plety to eate & wear and nothing to do. We are all waiting for the 8th June so that we can go home and see our Sweet hearts. I supose you know what they are. If you dont I do and I long for to see mine very much and I think she will want to see me    give my letter the least notice possible and oblidge yours remember me to all the Boys at armory Squre. Hoping to receive that Fatherly letter from you soon I will close good by   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00875.html," Letter from John T. Trowbridge to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 12, 1864",0.204542363661,"  Somerville February 12, 1864  My dear Walt Whitman. I have not seen your friend Babbitt since he left the Mason Hospital (about the time I wrote you before); but I have been there to inquire about him2.  Three days ago I called, and a soldier who had recently seen him reported him as gradually regaining his strength, though not his voice.  He is able to go out a little.  He is with, or near, some good friends of his, who are no doubt a comfort to him. What you write me of yourself and of your experiences, interests me and makes me almost envy you the privilege of being with our noble unfortunate soldiers.  You ought to write the epic of this war.  By the way, has anything been done with Drum Taps?  O'Connor3 said he would communicate with Carleton4 on the subject.  I have spoken with one publisher here about them; but he did not bite. An item of great domestic importance to us will perhaps interest you.  A boy was born to me yesterday   a lusty little chap, fat, well-formed, weight ten pounds.  Mother doing well thus far.  I have seen the new moon over my right shoulder to some purpose lately. A few days ago I wrote a letter about you to Secretary Chase5.  I hope you will yet hear from him.  He acknowledged at the time the receipt of the book you handed him; so I knew the package must have reached you.  I am heartily glad if the books have been put to any use.  How is your friend Brown who was to lose his foot?6 Give my love to the O'Connors. Good bye.  Your friend, J. T. Trowbridge  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00810.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Feb 12, 1864",0.204542363661,"  Culpepper Virginia |  Feb 12th | 64.  Dear Mother, I am still stopping down in this region. I am a good deal of the time down within half a mile of our picket lines, so that you see I can indeed call myself in the front. I stopped yesterday with an artillery camp, in the 1st Corps, at the invitation of Capt Cranford,1 who said that he knew me in Brooklyn. It is close to the lines   I asked him if he did not think it dangerous   he said no, he could have a large force of infantry to help him there, in very short metre, if there was any sudden emergency   The troops here are scattered all around, much more apart than they seemed to me to be opposite Fredericksburgh last winter   they mostly have good huts & fireplaces, &c   I have been to a great many of the camps, & I must say I am astonished how good the houses are almost every where   I have not seen one regiment nor any part of one, in the poor uncomfortable little shelter tents that I saw so common last winter, after Fredericksburgh   but all the men have built huts of logs & mud   a good many of them would be comfortable enough to live in under any circumstances2    I have been in the Division hospitals around here   there are not many men sick here, & no wounded   they now send them on to Washington   I shall return there in a few days, as I am very clear that the real need of one's services is there after all   there the worst cases concentrate, & probably will, while the war lasts    I suppose you know that what we call hospital here in the field, is nothing but a collection of tents, on the bare ground for a floor, rather hard accommodations for a sick man   they heat them here by digging a long trough in the ground under them, covering it over with old railroad iron & earth, & then building a fire at one end & letting it draw through & go out at the other, as both ends are open   this heats the ground through the middle of the hospital quite hot   I find some poor creatures crawling about pretty weak with diarrhea   there is a great deal of that   they keep them till they get very bad indeed, & then send them to Washington   the journey aggravates the complaint, & they come into Washington in a terrible condition   O mother, how often & how many I have seen come into Washington, from this awful complaint, after such an experience as I have described   with the look of Death on their poor young faces   they keep them so long in the field hospitals with poor accommodations, the disease gets too deeply seated    To-day I have been out among some of the camps of the 2d division of the 1st Corps   I have been wandering around all day, & have had a very good time, over woods, hills, & gullys, indeed a real soldier's march   the weather is good & the traveling quite tolerable   I have been in the camps of some Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, & New York regiments   I have friends in them, & went out to see them, & see soldiering generally, as I never cease to crave more & more knowledge of actual soldiers' life, & to be among them as much as possible   This evening I have also been in a large wagoners' camp   they had good fires, & were very cheerful   I went to see a friend there too, but did not find him in   it is curious how many I find that I know & that know me   Mother, I have no difficulty at all in making myself at home among the soldiers, teamsters, or any   I most always find they like to have me very much, it seems to do them good, no doubt they soon feel that my heart & sympathies are truly with them, & it is both a novelty & pleases them & touches their feelings, & so doubtless does them good   & I am sure it does that to me    There is more fun around here than you would think for   I told you about the theatre the 14th Brooklyn has got up,3 they have songs & burlesques &c, some of the performers real good   As I write this I have heard in one direction or another two or three good bands playing   & hear one tooting away some gay tunes now, though it is quite late at night   Mother, I dont know whether I mentioned in my last letter that I took dinner with Col Fowler4 one day early part of the week   his wife is stopping here   I was down at the 14th as I came along this evening too   one of the officers told me about a presentation to George of a sword &c, he said he see it in the papers5   the 14th invited me to come & be their guest while I staid here, but I have not been able to accept   Col Fowler uses me tip top   he is provost marshal of this region, makes a good officer   Mother, I could get no pen & ink tonight   Well, dear Mother, I send you my love & to George & Jeff & Mat & little girls & all    Walt direct to care Major Hapgood, as before, & write soon   Mother, I suppose you got a letter I wrote from down here last Monday    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00141.html," Letter from Andrew J. Liebenau to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 20, 1864",0.205630354957,"   Friend Walt, I have been setting at the foot of what I call my bed idoly speculating,  on the past, and thinking of many men I have met and called them Friends how often the word Friend, is missplace, but you have told me you were my Friend and called me your young Friend, I thank you for that priveledge from the inmost recess of my heart as I know you can appreciate a sincere Friend, and I will try to be that to you. I gave Father one of your ambrotypes when I was at home, he was very much pleased with it, and reconised it at once. My little Wife exclaimes, he looks like a very inteligent and kind hearted Old Gentleman,  when I gave her the presents you sent her, she said tell him Andy when you see him that although his gifts are small and he is an entire stranger to me I appreciate them very much, as you say he is a warm and good Friend of yours I respect all of your sincere and good Friends, Walt, I stopped at your residence when passing through Washington enroute to join my Regiment, and was told that you had gone on a visit to the Army, thinking that you had thought, that I had neglected to call upon you as I promised, I thought you might have gone out to visit me at my camp, expecting to meet you there I was sorrowfully disapointed on my arrival there to find that my conjectures were without foundation. Walt, I would invite you to visite me here at Camp but I am told that I will be sent home in a few days with the reenlisted men, to remain there for the term of Thirtyfive days, if it proves to be the truth I will stop and try to persuade you to go on to New York with me, and visit my little Wife and my home, to enjoy a few of your leisure hours cheerfully. I will now conclude Walt, as it is quite late, asking you to please excuse this scratch, as I have a very sharp pointed pen and my ink is frozen. I will now bid adieu,   Remaining Your Affectionate Friend,  Lieut. Commanding Co 1, 1st Regt Excelsior Brigade, 2nd Division, 3rd Corps, Army of the Potomac  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00602.html," Letter from Bethuel Smith to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 28, 1864",0.206718346253,   Dear friend I now take this Oppertunity to write A few lines to you to let you now that I am well & in good spirits & I hope those few lines will find you in the same condition I received your letter & was verry glad to hear from you & to hear that you was well & in good spirits to[o] we got paid two or three days ago it is the first time that I have bin paid in ten months I drawed one hundred & fifty two dollars & thirty Cents I am A going to send the most of it home in safe keeping you said that you wanted to now how the toe got along it is all well & it dont trouble me anny more you said that you was in Culpeper a few days ago if you come to Culpeper again I wish you would come & see me our Camp is 4 miles up the railroad toward the rapidan river near mitchell station I dont now as we will stay here long the report is that we are A going to come back to Washington in A few days A good share of the men is A reinlisting & going on furlow the duty is verry hard now on our regiment especily for it is pretty small well now I will have to close my letter by saying good by my dear friend walt   
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00187.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Moses Lane ( ? ) , 13 ( ?","Mar 1, 1864",0.206990344077," Dear friend,2 I rec'd this morning your additional contribution of $5 for the wounded & sick. The same am't from you was also duly & thankfully received last month. It is some time since I have written you.3 I have lately been down to front a second time through the field hospitals   they are breaking them up & sending the bad cases up here. I suppose preparatory to some movement of course. Among the sick diarrhea & rheumatism are prevalent. Many of the cases of the latter suffer fearfully. I am writing this in hospital as I am watching here to-night over a bad case. (Describe scene.)4 With me here things are about the same. I have first-rate health & strength. My hospital ministrations are very fascinating with all of their sadness. The wounded & sick get incredibly near to one. Poor young men, they respond so affectionately to kindness & magnetism.5 I suppose you hear of Grant's plan to improve enormously the communication between here & the southwest by rail &c. so that he can transport the army by immense trains hither & yon at short notice. They say he has staked all on taking Richmond within three months. God prosper him. Our Virginia Army is in prime condition. This I know from personal observation. All its defeats & slaughters have only hardened it, & made it an army of fighters. I believe Grant realizes in his secret heart that it is the clear superior in fibre & soul of his Western Army, but of course he would not say so. Dear friend, the sick are coming in here now from front pretty freely. I have need of means additional   The new sick & wounded generally come in without a cent. I give aid of all kinds, sometimes little sums of money. You have been generous & regular in your aid, & I cannot call on you for any thing more than you are doing, but I would like you to cast around among your friends, show them this note, & tell them the case   see if you could raise among them some 20 or $25 the ensuing week, if possible, for it is for a sacred object. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00811.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Mar 2, 1864",0.207126342989,"  Washington |   March 2 1864  Dear mother You or Jeff must try to write as soon as you receive this & let me know how little Sis is, tell me if she got entirely over the croup & how she is   also about George's trunks,1 I do hope he recovered them, it was such a misfortune   I want to hear the end of it, I am in hopes I shall hear that he has got them   I have not seen in the papers whether the 51st has left New York yet   Mother, I want to hear all about home & all the occurrences, especially the two things I have just mentioned, & how you are, dearest mother, you must write me exactly how you are for somehow I was thinking from your letters lately whether you was as well as usual or not   write how my dear sister Mat is too, & whether you are still going to stay there in Portland av. the coming year   Well, dear mother, I am just the same here, nothing new, I am well & hearty, & constantly moving around among the wounded & sick   there are a great many of the latter coming up   the hospitals here are quite full   lately they have [been] picking out in the hospitals all that had pretty well recovered, & sending them back to their regiments, they seem to be determined to strengthen the army this spring, to the utmost   they are sending down many to their reg'ts that are not fit to go, in my opinion   then there are squads & companies & reg'ts too passing through here in one steady stream going down to front, returning from furlough home   but then there are quite a number leaving the army on furlough, re-enlisting, & going north for a while   they pass through here quite largely    Mother, Lewis Brown is getting quite well, he will soon be able to have a wooden leg put on, he is very restless & active, & wants to go around all the time    Sam Beatty2 is here in Washington   We have had quite a snow storm, but is clear & sunny to-day here, but sloshy, I am wearing my army boots   any thing but the dust   Dear mother, I want to see you & Sis, & Mat & all very much   if I can get a chance I think I shall come home for a while   I want to try to bring out a book of poems, a new one to be called ""Drum Taps"" & I want to come to New York for that purpose too    Mother, I havn't given up the project of lecturing3 either   but whatever I do, I shall for the main thing devote myself for years to come to these wounded & sick, what little I can   Well good bye, dear mother, for present   write soon    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00142.html," Letter from Alfred L. Larr to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 5, 1864",0.207534339725,"   My Dear Sir I had the honor to recive the fiew lines you addressed to me, which was delivered by my particular friend Bush through whose instrumentality I am doubtless indebted for this kind and highly appreciated favor from you.2 In my humble opinion there is nothing so well calculated to inspire a soldier with new courage and fresh detirmanation and fit him for the performance of his duty under all circumstances; as the assurance that he has the sympathy and friendship of the aged, who by the infirmaties of age are rendered unfit and incapable of sharing his hard life but are ever ready and willing when occasion offers to extend a word of friendly greeting and bid him God speed Then kneed I tell you that your friendship is most cordialy accepted and mine freely and cheerfuly given in return with the hope that this partial acquaintance may ripen into a mutual attachment The preasent you sent me I received for which accept my profound thanks   With the hope of hearing from you soon I'll close Yours Truly   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00349.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Mar 6, 1864",0.207670338637,"  Nashville Tennessee   March 6th/64 Dear Mother We arrived here last night, and will leave for Knoxville in the course of an hour or two. I am very well indeed and we have had a very pleasant trip out this far. We staid in Louisville Ky. 4 days, boarding at a first rate Hotel, and I am trying to eat enough to last me for a week or two after I get to the front. I found my trunk up at Fort Schuyler all right the morning I left home. Everything seems to be quiet just now in this Department  we are ordered to proceed to Knoxville by way of Chatanooga. I have not written to Walt since I left home but I shall write as soon as we get to our destination. Mother when you write  direct to Knoxville and when you write to Walt tell him to not wait to get a letter from me, but to let me hear from him immediately. How are you all at home  the baby you know was not well when I left, but I hope she is all right before now,  When you write to Han tell her I shall write to her Soon, and if you hear from her tell me all about her in your next letter. I must stop now as it is about time for me to get ready to start. Kind regards to all George W. Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00143.html," Letter from Alonzo S. Bush to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 7, 1864",0.207806337549,"   Friend Walter Your kind favor of 22nd [This letter is currently lost] came to hand all O.K. and I was glad to here from you and the Hospital Boys and learn that you ware getting along fine. I should like to have been out to the front withe you and seen the old army of Potomac once more for cince we left them we have had no fight or skirmish in that line every thing is dul down here. You say you have had some hard weather of late. We experienced some of it I dare say    I am glad to know that the boys had such good quarters this winter and hope that they may be able to whip the rebs in the coming contest. I was much pleased to here that Lewis Brown had recovered so much as to go out on pass. tell him to go slow and all will be well in the out come. And tell him that I still look for his & Benedict's photographs. Bartlett's I have.2 Friend Walt there is nothing of importance or interest going on here and camp. Life is pretty lazy at this time we are rejocing at the timely arrival of sweet spring once more Winter has come & gone, and solders begin to feell happy. the weather is tolarable fine at this presant time and the trees begin to bud and the Bird to sing. it will be a beautiful place down here in a few weeks. There is a large dance house and pleasure garden a bout 1/ 4 from here they are fixing it up for the summer. So you must com down when it gets in full blast a boat will play between here & Washington so it will be handy and I shall expect many of the Boys to come. John Strain is in pretty good Health but his leg has never been of much service to him cince he is expecting his discharge at this time he will get it3. I would like to have some of the contents of the black Balt at this time  I gave that note to Larr and he was muched pleased to here from you, and will reply to it in person. They both wish to be remembered to you and the boys of Hospital. Please to remember me to Miss Lowell4 Brown5, Benedict, Bartlett, & Chas Cate6   also to all others of my acquain[tance]   and dont forget to reserve a due portion for you self  I will now close Hoping to Here from you soon, good By    To Walt, I wish to know if you can get aa Photograph taken from the Negitive of mine if so inform me, also of Price as I wish to send for a doz more  if it can be done I will send you the money for to have them taken   as soon as we are paid I will send you  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00144.html," Letter from W. A. Jellison to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 9, 1864",0.208078335373,   Dear Uncle Walter You will doubtless be Somewhat Surprised to learn that I am in Washington but here I am and will try and give you a few details of my Adventures Since I left Armory Square Well I went to Camp Destribution well after we got thare the doctor Sent word around for all the wounded men to be Examined he Sent me to Angaer General Hospital then I was Examined thare by the Board and Ordered to be Sent to Washington what they will do with me now is more than I can tell  thare now haint I done well Oh! I would like to see you verry much for I like Uncle Walter verry much now dont think I am trying to play the flatterer for I haint no Such a person now I want you to come up and See me Just as soon as you can and the first pass I can get I am coming to see you for I have got lots to tell you that would be Imposible to write please drop me a note by Return mail in the meantime I am yours Etc.   
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00432.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 11, 1864",0.208350333197,"  Brooklyn March 11th 1864 Dear Walt,  The enclosed $5 is contributed for the wounded men by Moses Lane1 I am at a stand to know whether to beg pardon for not writing you before or to scold you for not writing to me.2 I have been away for nearly three weeks, down in Conn. making surveys for an ""Iron Co."" and only returned last Monday night. since then I have been very much engaged in getting my work up so that I have not, lately, really had an opportunity to write you  We have had, and are having, considerable excitement in relation to moving and the house. Just so soon as I had got away in the country, the next day, Mrs Brown3 informed Mother that they had hired the house and that she could remain by paying $8 per month ($3 a month increase) but that our rooms they should rent to other parties, would not allow us to have them anyhow &c   This came rather hard on Mat and Mother, for we thought sure that things would go on as they had the last year, only with a slight increase of rent. On my return Mat told me all about it. On Tuesday, the next day some masons &c came with their tools to make repairs to the rooms and house. I told Mat, (she was going to take up her stair carpet oil cloths   clear out closets &c) to not touch a thing, informed the men that I paid rent for the rooms that they were abt fixing that I didn't want them fixed and should charge the landlord with all damage done. In the afternoon I went to New York to see Travis4 (the new landlord) to give him legal notice about it. After talking with him awhile I found that the Browns had lied to us and lied to him.   that they had not hired it, but merely talked of it   that they had offered to get a tenant in our place that Travis had told them that the rent of the house would be $400 and that if it returned that to him they might have it if they wanted it and if I was not going to stay &c. In the mean time the Browns were trying to let our room to Jim Jourdan's wife.5 Mr Travis said that he would just as soon have us stay as they. Travis sent them a note not to let the house till they saw him. They both went over in the evening to see Travis and lied again by telling him that they had rented it but as they had not passed any papers he would not let them have it.   The increase of rent is $52   $36 of this they were going to fasten on Mother   I offered Travis that I would pay $18 a month for the rooms that Mother and I had   that would leave them to pay 15 1/3 a month increasing our rent $3 and theirs $1 1/3 or if they would not agree to that, that I would take the whole of it at $400.   He is to decide this week which   if either   he will do  in the mean time they are moving everything to get Mat and I out.   I think the chances are about even whether they succeed or not. Rents are very high in Brooklyn  for that floor over Browers6 (cor of Cumberland st. and Myrtle) they ask $350 for one floor and 275 for the third story.   There is a story around that Travis bought the house we live in for $3000, but I can hardly think of it. If so I wish I had known it  I would have tried to get it myself Mr Crany's7 address would be best ""care of Moses Lane Box 192 Brooklyn P.O."" I wish you would write me a letter to show Mr W. E. Worthen8 of New York  I think I could raise you some $20 or $25 per month out of him  He is the man I went down to Springfield to work for.   he spoke of it himself   said that he thought he could do something out of his friends,   although poor himself We suppose that George is at Camp Nelson9 again but we have not heard from himself since he went away. Sims10 is here yet, got a recruiting office. Mother is not well. I think she has the worst cold that I ever knew of  I wish she could be made to think that she must not wash scrub and clean house.   I had quite a time with her this morning about it  after exhausting every excuse she said she ""could not afford to hire it done""   She is foolishly worrying herself about George   thinking that he does not want her to use so much of his money  She says that when he went away he did not say as usual ""Mammy dont want for anything""  If he didn't God knows he meant it. To me his whole life and actions home seemed to say so. But Mother seems to feel quite bad about it. Several days after he first went away she was either crying or planning how to take ""boarders"" and make her own living. Poor Mother, how foolish her dear old heart gets sometimes. Mat has been quite sick but is well again. the little one is quite well and Hattie too. Matters are going on about as usual. I wish you could find time to write me a good long letter. also one to Lane, and the Dr11 too you said you would write. I will write again soon Yours affectionately Jeff."
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00812.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Mar 15, 1864",0.208894328845,"  Washington |  March 15 1864.  Dearest mother, I got a letter from Jeff last Sunday   he says you have a very bad cold indeed   dear mother, I feel much concerned about it   I do hope it has passed over before this   Jeff wrote me about the house, I hope it will be so you can both remain in the same house,1 it would be much more satisfaction [line cut out] very sick of brain fever, I was with   the poor boy is dead,2 he was only 19, & a noble boy, so good, though out of his senses some eight days, though still having a kind of idea of things, no relative or friend was with him, it was very sad, I was with him considerable, only just sitting by him soothing him, he was wandering all the time, his talk was so affecting it kept the tears in my eyes much of the time, the last 24 hours he sunk very rapidly   he had been sick some months ago, & was put in the 6th invalid corps   they ought to have sent him home instead   the next morning after his death his brother came, a very fine man, postmaster at Lyme Ridge, Pa.   he was much affected, & well he might be. Mother, I think it is worse than ever here in the hospitals, we are getting the dregs as it were of the sickness & awful hardships of the past three years   there is the most horrible cases of diarrhea you ever conceived of, & by the hundreds & thousands, I suppose from such diet as they have in the army    Well, dear mother, I will not write any more on the sick   & yet I know you wish to hear about them   every one is so unfeeling, it has got to be an old story   there is no good nursing   O I wish you were   or rather women of such qualities as you & Mat   were here, in plenty, to be stationed as matrons among the poor sick & wounded men   just to be present would be enough   O what good it would do them    Mother, I feel so sick when I see what kind of people there are among them, with charge over them, so cold & ceremonious, afraid to touch them   Well, Mother, I fear I have written you a flighty kind of a letter   I write in haste    Walt    The papers came right, mother   [line cut out] love to Jeff, Mat & all    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00311.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 19, 1864",0.209438324493,"  Brooklyn March 19th /64 Dear Walt, The enclosed letter from George1 I should have sent you before but have been so busy that I have neglected it  There is nothing particularly new at home with the exception that Mother is not well. She has been very unwell for the last few days. She has a very steady and severe pain, she thinks a gathering or enlargement, in the right side of her chest. For a day or two she was almost helpless. Night before last Mat made her a poultice of elm and it seems to have done her good. I can not get her to allow herself to be taken care of or to take care of herself. She has been very foolish in house cleaning, she has done more work   whitewashing and cleaning   than any man ought to have done. Yet all the talking that Mat and I could do was no avail. I am really fearful that she has permanently hurt herself. If she does not get better by tomorrow I shall have the doctor to see her  Its very provoking to have Mother kill herself so persistently. She is much worse I think than she used to be. She has an idea that she cannot afford to have anything hired. Im in hopes that you will make and carry out the idea of coming to New York.2 I cannot imagine what it is that ails mother. I hope nothing serious In regard to the house I belive its settled that we all stay as we are. I sent for Brown3 to come up and see me the other evening. He said that if he had to pay more rent he would have to move. That he should like to stay but that he would move rather than pay more  I thought the matter all over   I did not want to take the whole house   I did not want to move   it would not make but a difference of abt a $ per month so I told Brown he could stay and I would bear the increased rent. As it now stands it is as follows  Mother pays $85 per year, I pay $147 per year and Brown $168 per year. I took out an agreement for Mothers and my names at $19 33 per month Did you get my letter enclosing $5 from Mr Lane.4 Why do you not write me? is there any reason? I was in hopes that I would hear from you sometime ago. I wrote you to write me a letter to show Mr Worthen5 of New York. I think we could get some money through him. Mattie and the babies are quite well. The children are both growing finely  If Mother does not get better in a few days I will write you again Yours truly Thos J. Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00813.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Mar 22, 1864",0.209846321229,"  Washington |  March 22 1864  Dearest Mother, I feel quite bad to hear that you are not well, have a pain in your side, & a very bad cold   dear Mother, I hope it is better   I wish you would write to me, or Jeff would, right away, as I shall not feel easy until I hear   I rec'd George's letter, Jeff wrote with it, about your feeling pretty sick, & the pain   Mother, I also rec'd your letter a few days before   you say the Brown's acted very mean & I should think they did indeed, but as it is going to remain the same about the house, I should let it all pass1   I am very glad Mat & Jeff are going to remain, I should not have felt satisfied if they & you had been separated   I have written a letter to Han, with others enclosed, a good long letter, (took two postage stamps)   I have written to George too, directed it to Knoxville.2 Mother, every thing is the same with me, I am feeling very well indeed, the old trouble of my head stopt & my ears affected, has not troubled me any since I came back here from Brooklyn   I am writing this in Major Hapgood's old office, cor 15th & F st., where I have my old table & window   it is dusty & chilly to-day, any thing but agreeable   Gen Grant is expected every moment now in the Army of the Potomac, to take active command   I have just this moment heard from the front   there is nothing yet of a movement, but each side is continually on the alert, expecting something to happen   O mother, to think that we are to have here soon what I have seen so many times, the awful loads & trains & boat loads of poor bloody & pale & wounded young men again   for that is what we certainly will, & before very long   I see all the little signs, getting ready in the hospitals &c.   it is dreadful, when one thinks about it   I sometimes think over the sights I have myself seen, the arrival of the wounded after a battle, & the scenes on the field too, & I can hardly believe my own recollection   what an awful thing war is   Mother, it seems not men but a lot of devils & butchers butchering each other    Dear Mother, I think twenty times a day about your sickness   O I hope it is not so bad as Jeff wrote, he said you was worse than you had ever been before   & he would write me again   well he must, even if only a few lines   what have you heard from Mary & her family, anything? Well, dear Mother, I hope this will find you quite well of the pain, & of your cold   write about the little girls & Mat & all    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00160.html," Letter from Rodney R. Worster to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 28, 1864",0.210662314701,"   Friend Walt You may be somewhat surprised to hear from me but I have not forgotten you although you have lost sight of me  I am one of Uncle Sams Boys going the whole Hog for Union & The Constitution as it was. I belong to the 133rd NY V[olunteer]s & Bully Boys are we  we have seen some service where Rebel shot & shell flew some at the Battle of Bisland we bore our part & I believe acquired ourselves manfully some of our brave fellows fell there. we were also at the siege & capture of Port Hudson where our Col was wounded & many of our men were killed in fact it would take me to long & ocupy to much space this time to tell you one half the places or the adventures we have passed through since we left Gotham suffice it to say that we are at present doing garison Duty here Bonet Carra is situated on the banks of the Missisippi about 35 miles above New Orleans our Dutys are light barely enough for healthy exercise the camp right on the bank of the River, the air pure & wholesome. I dont know that there are any here with whom you are personally acquainted we are A compound mixture of all sorts Stage Drivers Policemen Hotel & Steam Boat runners Old Sports in hard luck Dry goods Clerks & Broken Down merchants all mixed together & on the most friendly terms with each other we have all sorts of sports Ball play being the favorite we are havin A jimnasium built in which we may break our necks if we like on the whole we pass the time pleasantly enough with now & then A twinge of Home sickness but it all comes in the Prrogramme & we take it as it comes I am & have been with slight exceptions in good Health plenty to eat comfortable clothing what more need I ask but I am tired of the war & wish it was over but I fear that I shall tire your patience will close by subscribing vour sincere Friend   Rodney R. Worster Co C 133rd Reg. NY VS New Orleans or else where Please direct as above  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00814.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Mar 29, 1864",0.210798313613,"  Washington |  Tuesday afternoon M[arch 29]  Dearest mother I have written [to] George again to Knox[ville]   things seem to be quiet down there so far   We think here that our forces are going to be made strongest here in Virginia this spring, & every thing bent to take Richmond   Grant is here, he is now down at headquarters in the field, Brandy Station   we expect fighting before long, there are many indications   I believe I told you they had sent up all the sick from front1   about four nights ago we [had a] terrible rainy afternoon [& night]   Well in the middle [of the w]orst of the rain at [night? th]ere arrived a train [of sick?] & wounded, over 600 [soldiers], down at the depot   [It w]as one of the same [old] sights, I could not keep the tears out of my eyes   many of the poor young men had to be moved on stretchers, with blankets over them, which soon soaked as wet as water in the rain   Most were sick cases, but some badly wounded   I came up to the nearest hospital & helped   Mother, it was a dreadful night (last Friday night)   pretty dark, the wind gusty, & the rain fell in torrents   One poor boy (this is a sample of one case out of the 6000 he seemed to me quite young, he was quite small, (I looked at his body afterwards)   he groaned some as the stretcher   bearers were carrying him along   & again as they carried him through the hospital gate, they set down the stretcher & examined him, & the poor boy was dead   they took him into the ward, & the doctor came immediately, but it was all of no use   the worst of it is too that he is entirely unknown   there was nothing on his clothes, or any one with him, to identify him   & he is altogether unknown   Mother, it is enough to rack one's heart, such things   very likely his folks will never know in the world what has become of him   poor poor child, for he appeared as though he could be but 18    I feel lately as though I must have some intermission, I feel well & hearty enough, & was never better, but my feelings are kept in a painful condition a great part of the time   things get worse & worse, as to the amount & sufferings of the sick, & as I have said before, those who have to do with them are getting more & more callous & indifferent   Mother, when I see the common soldiers, what they go through, & how every body seems to try to pick upon them, & what humbug there is over them every how, even the dying soldier's money stolen from his body by some scoundrel attendant, or from some sick ones, even from under his head, which is a common thing   & then the agony I see every day, I get almost frightened at the world   Mother, I will try to write more cheerfully next time   but I see so much   well, good bye for present, dear Mother    Walt Mother, I got your letter telling [me you were] better   have you got quite we[ll?   I] wish you would write very so[on again] too   I feel uneasy about [you]   I send my love to Jeff & Mat & all    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00815.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Mar 31, 1864",0.211070311438,"  Washington |  Thursday afternoon | March 31st '64  Dearest mother, I have just this moment received your letter dated last Monday evening   dear mother, I have not seen any thing in any paper where the 51st is, nor heard any thing, but I do not feel any ways uneasy about them, I presume they are at Knoxville, Tennessee1   Mother, they are now paying off many of the regiments in this army   but about George I suppose there will be delays in sending money &c   dear mother, I wish I had some money to send you, but I am living very close by the wind   Mother, I will try somehow to send you something worth while, & I do hope you will not worry & feel unhappy about money matters   I know things are very high   Mother, I suppose you got my letter written Tuesday last, 29th March, did you not? I have been going to write to Jeff for more than a month   I laid out to write a good long letter, but something has prevented me, one thing & another   but I will try to write to-morrow sure    Mother, I have been in the midst of suffering & death for two months worse than ever   the only comfort is that I have been the cause of some beams of sunshine upon their suffering & gloomy souls & bodies too   many of the dying I have been with too    Well, mother, you must not worry about the grocery bill &c, though I suppose you will say that is easier said than followed   (As to me I believe I worry about worldly things less than ever, if that is possible)   Tell Jeff & Mat I send them my love   Gen Grant has just come in town from front   the country here is all mud again   I am going to a spiritualist medium2 this evening, I expect it will be a humbug of course, I will tell you next letter   dear mother, keep a good heart    Walt How is Californy?   tell Hat her uncle Walt will come home one of these days, & take her to New York to walk in Broadway   poor little Jim,4 I should like to see him   there is a rich young friend of mine wants me to go to Idaho with him to make money3    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00820.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to James P. Kirkwood , 27 ( ?","Apr 1, 1864",0.21120631035," I forget whether I wrote to you2 acknowledging the receipt of the $10 sent for the wounded & sick, 1st Feb.3 It came safe   also the $5 you sent some ten days since. My dear sir, your contributions are very, very welcome   they go to the direct sustenance, cheer, & comfort of special cases of wounded & sick.4 I have now been over a year among the wounded. I find that personal application, tact, & insight, with entire sympathy, are the only means effectual in hospitals   every case wants some peculiar adaptation   to some, some little article purchased   many the tender hand & word, oft repeated, never slacking up, till danger is past. Some, while prostrated, are out of money, & too proud to speak of it, to these a little gift of two or three [cents?]   to some a little tobacco is a great treasure. Any thing like beggars or deceivers, are very rare   indeed I dont meet one a fortnight. The soldiers are nearly altogether young American men of decent breeding, farmers' sons ordinarily educated, but well behaved & their young hearts full of manliness & candor. Their condition makes deepest attachments5 under their sufferings & wounds often brought right to the bitterness of death. Some, indeed, one feels to love deeply, & they return it with interest. I have lately been down front, on a short tour through the Army, part of the time being in camp among the men, (I know a great many soldiers in the ranks) & part visiting the division hospitals. The hospitals in the field are at present thin   the main cases are here. The condition of the Army the past winter has been surpassingly good   (go on with acc't)6   the talk here is that Grant is going to make things hop in this region presently   The idea is that the means of railway transportation between here & the southwest are to be increased to the extremest practical degree, so that he can swing large bodies to & fro, with unprecedented dispatch, & have the use of the Army, in either quarter, at a few days notice. We hear he (Grant) thinks it indispensable that we should smash Lee & the Richmond junta this summer, though more for our prestige than for any practical need of Richmond as a locality. I can assure you from personal knowledge that the Army of the Potomac is in splendid condition, physically & in soul   it has now the fibre of the most veteran troops, one of the historic armies. It is very youthful. I think well of Meade. He is very cautious & conscientious, yet very alert   (would be perfect if he fused those qualities with the lightning of audacity & venturing all when it was worth it, but he has not that dangerous but necessary crowning merit, Napoleon's.) I make no calculations on the course & result of the ensuing summer campaign, except that I believe it will be vehement. Meantime we are liable at any moment to have an incipient caving in of the South, parts of it like North Carolina, but the shrewd ones here still reckon on a desperate fight of the Richmond junta, ferocious, carrying things with as high hand as ever the ensuing year. I see the President often. I think better of him than many do. He has conscience & homely shrewdness   conceals an enormous tenacity under his mild, gawky western manner. The difficulties of his situation have been unprecedented in the history of statesmanship. That he has conserved the government so far is a miracle itself. The difficulties have not been the south alone. The north has been & is yet honeycombed with semi-secesh sympathisers ever ready to undermine   & I am half disposed to predict that after the war closes, we shall see bevies of star-straps, two or three of our own Major Generals, shot for treachery, & fully deserve their fate. I write this in hospital, having leisure here. I am sitting by the side of a soldier of the 6th Maine   he had his leg amputated lately. The sick are coming in pretty freely here, poor wrecks & phantoms   a sign of action, as they are breaking up the field hospitals. One's heart bleeds for them. Every day I am among them as usual. I desire you, if you have any friends able to send me aid, & that feel to do so, that you would show them this letter, as I would like more means. It shall be sacredly [incomplete] "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00350.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Apr 3, 1864",0.211478308174,"  Annapolis, Maryland Sunday April 3d 1864 Dear Mother Well Mother, here we are back to our old starting point, Annapolis, and I am very glad to get back again to a civalized country. When I last wrote you from Nasville Tenn.2 we were just about leaving that place for the front. Well we went to Knoxville by way of Chattanooga, stopped at Knoxville a day or two, and then were ordered to a place called Mossy Creek, about 40 miles beyond Knoxville. The next day after we arrived at the Creek we were ordered to bout face and travel over the same ground again back to this place. We arrived here yesterday having been nearly two weeks on the journey,  our Regt. came nearly all the way by Rail Road but the rest of the Corps are now on the way, they having to march all the way from Knoxville to this place,  they have now been some 13 days on the way and it will take them 5 or 6 days longer to reach here. I suppose you know that our Corps has been ordered to rendezvous at this place,  there are now some 10,000 mostly new troops here for our Corps. We will probaly stay here some weeks, as it will take some time to get things ready for a start. We are now in barracks but we go into Camp tomorrow. We are to have all new tents and everything clean and nice and we expect to have good times while we stay here. We had a mighty rough time down in Tennesse  grub was scarce and we had no tents, and had to leave our trunks behind as we had no transportation after we left Knoxville, for the creek. Well Mother how are you all getting along at home,  I received a letter from Walt a few days ago, dated March 19th  he says you have been quite sick, but I hope you are entirely well now, as he says you was very much better when he wrote to me,  Little Sis too he says is first rate. Hattie I hope is lively as ever, and Mattie, Walt says is first rate. Mother you must write to me as soon as you get this and tell me how you are all getting along. Have you heard from Hannah lately  I should very much like to hear from her. I shall write to Walt to day or tomorrow and I expect he will come on here in a few days and I only wish you could all come on and see us after we get in our new camp. We expect to get paid in the course of a few days and then Mother I shall send you some money. I should like for Jeff (some time when he is over in New York) to stop at the place where I had my pictures taken and order a dozen, and send them out to me. Mother I hope your coughf is well by this time but I shall feel uneasy untill I hear from you. I believe I have written all that I can think at present so good bye Mamy,  give my love to Mattie, Jeff and the rest. George W. Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00816.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Apr 5, 1864",0.211750305998,"  Washington |  Tuesday afternoon April 5th | '64  Dearest Mother, I got a letter from Jeff yesterday   he says you often work too hard, exposing yourself, I suppose scrubbing &c. and the worst of it is I am afraid it is true   Mother, I would take things easy, & let up on the scrubbing & such things, they may be needed perhaps, but they ain't half as much needed as that you should be as well as possible, & free from rheumatism & cold1   Jeff says that sis has had the chicken pox   has she got all over it   I want to hear   So Nance2 has had another child, poor little one, there don't seem to be much show for it, poor little young one, these times. We are having awful rainy weather here   it is raining to-day, steady & spiteful enough   the soldiers in camp are having the benefit of it, & the sick, many of them   there is a great deal of rheumatism & also throat diseases, & they are affected by the weather   I have writ to George again, directed to Knoxville   Mother, I got a letter this morning from Lewis Brown,3 the young man that had his leg amputated two months or so ago   (the one that I slept in the hospital by several nights for fear of hemorrhage from the amputation)   he is home at Elkton, Maryland, on furlough, he wants me to come out there, but I believe I shall not go, he is doing very well   there are many very bad now in hospitals   so many of the soldiers are getting broke down after two years, or two & a half, exposure, & bad diet, pork, hard biscuit, bad water or none at all, &c &c   so we have them brought up here. O it is terrible, & getting worse, worse, worse   I thought it was bad to see the wounded, but to see these I sometimes think is more pitiful still    Well, mother, I went to see the great spirit medium Foster, there were some little things some might call curious perhaps, but it is a shallow thing & a humbug   a gentleman who was with me was somewhat impressed, but I could not see any thing in it worth calling supernatural   I wouldnt turn on my heel to go again & see such things, or twice as much   we had table rappings & lots of nonsense   I will give you particulars when I come home one of these days    Jeff, I believe there is a fate on your long letter, I thought I would write it to-day, but as it happens I will hardly get this in the mail I fear in time for to-day   O how I want to see you all, & sis & Hat   Well I have scratched out a great letter, just as fast as I could write    Wednesday forenoon   Mother, I didn't get the letter in the mail yesterday   I have just had my breakfast, some good tea & good toast & butter   I write this in my room, 456 Sixth st.   the storm seems to be over   dear Mother, I hope you are well & in good spirits   Write to me often as you can & Jeff too   any news from Han? Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.01010.html," Letter from William E. Vandemark to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 7, 1864",0.212022303822,"  April 7/64     father i have been here to se yo and yo was not at home i leave my best wishes hoping yo are well i am very well yo must come and see me good by,  W. E. Vandermark to his father Walt Whitman.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/mhs.00005.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to George Washington Whitman ,","Apr 9, 1864",0.212294301646,"  Washington |  Saturday mn'g April 9 '64  Dear brother I got a letter from Mother this morning, & she sends one to you for me to direct   I will just enclose both   you must write to Mother oftener   before she got this last letter it was too long, & seemed ten times longer than it was2   if she don't hear from you in a long while she just gets sick about it   she is getting pretty old, & shows it at last   still I think she is pretty well    Nothing new with me   I wrote you three days ago,3 to Annapolis, I suppose you got it   Jeff is away a good deal of the time, surveying &c4   We are having another rain-storm set in here this morning   Congress is splurging away, doing some good things too   I see Kalbfleisch5 & Odell6 here frequently   have you writ to Han? Well, brother, good bye for present    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00817.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Apr 10, 1864",0.212430300558,"  Washington |  April 10th 1864.  Dearest Mother, I rec'd your letter & sent the one you sent for George immediately   he must have got it the next day   I had got one from him before yours arrived   I mean to go to Annapolis & see him    Mother, we expect a commencement of the fighting below very soon, there is every indication of it   we have had about as severe rain storms here lately as I ever see   it is middling pleasant now   there are exciting times in Congress1   the Copperheads are getting furious, & want to recognize the Southern Confederacy   this is a pretty time to talk of recognizing such villains after what they have done, and after what has transpired the last three years   After first Fredericksburgh I felt discouraged myself, & doubted whether our rulers could carry on the war   but that has past away, the war must be carried on   & I would willingly go myself in the ranks if I thought it would profit more than at present, & I don't know sometimes but I shall as it is    Mother, you dont know what a feeling a man gets after being in the active sights & influences of the camp, the Army, the wounded &c.   he gets to have a deep feeling he never experienced before2   the flag, the tune of Yankee Doodle, & similar things, produce an effect on a fellow never such before   I have seen some bring tears on the men's cheeks, & others turn pale, under such circumstances3   I have a little flag (it belonged to one of our cavalry reg'ts) presented to me by one of the wounded   it was taken by the secesh in a cavalry fight, & rescued by our men in a bloody little skirmish, it cost three men's lives, just to get one little flag, four by three   our men rescued it, & tore it from the breast of a dead rebel   all that just for the name of getting their little banner back again   this man that got it was very badly wounded, & they let him keep it   I was with him a good deal, he wanted to give me something he said, he didn't expect to live, so he gave me the little banner as a keepsake   I mention this, Mother, to show you a specimen of the feeling   there isn't a reg't, cavalry or infantry, that wouldn't do the same, on occasion    Tuesday morning April 12th Mother, I will finish my letter this morning   it is a beautiful day to-day   I was up in Congress very late last night,4 the house had a very excited night session about expelling the men that want to recognize the Southern Confederacy   You ought to hear the soldiers talk   they are excited to madness   we shall probably have hot times here not in the Army alone   the soldiers are true as the north star   I send you a couple of envelopes, & one to George   Write how you are, dear Mother, & all the rest   I want to see you all   Jeff, my dear brother, I wish you was here, & Mat too   Write how sis is   I am well as usual, indeed first rate every way   I want to come on in a month, & try to print my ""Drum Taps""5   I think it may be a success pecuniarily too   Dearest Mother, I hope this will find you entirely well, & dear sister Mat & all. Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00351.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Apr 14, 1864",0.212974296206,"  Camp near Annapolis Md April 14th 1864 Dear Mother, We were paid this afternoon for the Month of February, and I enclose you $50.00 and am sorry that I cant send you more, but Mother if you need more before I get my next pay (which is due the last of this Month) you must certainly draw it from the Bank, as I send it to you for you to use it just when you want it. Mother I received your letter (of April 6th) a few days ago. I had felt quite alarmed about you   as Walt wrote me that you had a very bad cough, and I know how any thing of that kind affects and hangs on to you. I am quite sure Mother that you are not half carefull enough of yourself, and if you would only hire someone to come and work for you two or three days every week, and let them do all the scrubing and cleaning, I am sure you would not be trobled so much with colds and lameness,  You needent say you cant afford it Mammy, for I will guarentee to send you money enough to keep the Institution running (without your working the way you always have) and Mammy dont you be backward in useing it.1 One thing is certain Mammy you must surely contrive to take more care of yourself, and in your next letter I shall expect to hear that you have made some arrangment that will enable you to sit down and take your ease whenever you feel like it. Ime in right down earnest Mammy, and if you will only do as I advise I shall be a great deal better satisfied. I know you think that no one can do your work like yourself. (Mammy I wonder what the duece you would do if you was unfortunate enough to be rich) but you cant expect to work now as you did Twenty or Thirty years ago, so you have just got to take things easy and get some one else to do the hard work or let it go undone. Matty and the little gals you say are well,  poor little Sis I felt quite worried about her after I went away,  You know she was pretty bad with the croupe a night or two before I left home. Hattie can knock around and hold her own almost anywhere,  does she go in and tease aunty Brown's parrot now a days.2 So Mother you are all going to stay in Portland Ave another year,  well I dont suppose you could do better, for the same rent, although if the house was smaller or the Rent rather so that you and Mattie could take the whole of it  it would be much better.3 I received a letter from Walt dated April 9th  he seems to be getting along very well and says he thinks of publishing a small book this Spring.4 I should like very much to hear from Hannah and whenever you hear from her, Mother you must not fail to let me know. I am first rate and am getting along tip top,  when I last wrote you I believe we were in barracks. We are now encamped about 2½ miles from the Villiage and we have everything as nice and comfortable as you please,  we have been pretty short of cash along back but as we are paid now, we can go it with a rush. Hunt  the man that I told you was going Sutler5 for the Regt and intended to board the Officers, did not go with us to Tennessee, but he is here now and expects to have the institution running in the course of a day or two. I think it will save us a good deal of trouble, and be much better than liveing as we have been. I have a nice wall tent all alone to myself and if I have some one to look out for my grub, I shall be all hunk. I dont see any signs of our leaving here yet awhile, Troops arrive here almost every day and go into Camp. We have only had some 60 or 70 recruits as yet, but we hear there are some 200 in New York for us. Generals Grant and Burnside6 paid us a visit yesterday. There was no grand Review as is generaly the case, but the Regiments just fell in line and Grant rode along and looked at them and then went on about his business. There are all sorts of speculation about the destination of our Expedition but the general opinion is that we are to go to North Carolina for an advance into Virginia by way of Goldsborough while the Potomac Army makes another push for Richmond by the front door, but I am rather inclined to think that we are intended as a kind of reserve, to send where we are most needed. Mother I believe I mentioned in my last letter about your haveing some of my pictures taken and sent on to me by mail as I have promised several of the Officers to give them one. And about the boots if no one is wearing them if Jeff would wrap them up and send them by Express and send me the receipt by mail, they would be good for stormy weather, but if any one is wearing them its of no consequence. Good bye for the present. Dear Mother, give my love to all and let me hear from you often. Direct Capt G. W. W.  Co K  51 Regt N.Y. Vols.  Annapolis Md [Unsigned]  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00352.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 16, 1864",0.21324629403,"  Camp near Annapolis Md    Apl. 16th [1864] Dear Brother Walt.1 Well here we are nicely fixed in our new Camp at last. A few days after I last wrote you (we were then in barracks) we pitched camp in a wet marshy place,   and just about the time we got our tents up it commenced to rain, and kept it up steady for two days. The boys had the devils own time to keep from getting swamped,  I just fixed my bunk so there was no danger of my getting drowned, and then turned in and slept till it stopped raining. As soon as it cleared up we pulled up stakes and came here, where we have a nice dry camp and everything comfortable. We are about 2½ miles from the town and about ½ a mile above Camp Parole. Well Walt we had rather a tedious journey way down there in Tenn (two weeks steady car riding aint much fun I tell you) but then we saw considerable of that part of the Country  We left New York Feb 25  went to Albany, from there to Buffalo, from there to Indianapolis, from there to Jeffersonville and crossed the River to Louisville, stayed here a couple of days waiting for Transportation, and then went to Nashville  from there to Chattanooga,  had the pleasure of seeing Genl Thomas, and the celabrated Lookout Mt.2 and then went on to Knoxville, where we stopped two or three days, drawing ammunition, shelter tents for men and Officers and Camp & Garrison equipage,  here we were ordered to leave all surplus baggage and we started off on the march for a place called Mossy Creek about 40 miles from Knoxville where it was said there was a small force of Rebs. After a march of two days we reached the Creek and found everything quiet and after staying there one night we were ordered to bout face and march back to Knoxville, where we took the cars again and came back over the same route. East Tenn no doubt was a very nice place before the war, but now its about the last place that I want to go to. The most of the large farmers and rich men seems to have gone off with the rebs, and the poor folks have about all they can do, to get bacon and corn meal enough to keepp them alive. Knoxville looks as if it might have been quite a nice place, once upon a time, but there is not the least signs of business neither there or at Chattanoonga except it is, business connected with Military affairs. It must have been pretty hard times in Knoxville during the siege,3 as our Brigade say, that for some days, all the Commissary Stores issued, was three ears of corn to each man for his days rations. Walt, I have expected you on here almost every day. I got your letter of Apl 9th. I wrote Mother yesterday, and shall write to her often. Mother I fear is not very well this Spring,  I do wish she would not wory and work the way she does,  One thing is certain she cant always expect to work and slave as she always has done, and I think the sooner she slacks up the better it will be for her. I am first rate,  we have had about 65 or 70 Recruits and we hear there are some 150 or 200 more in New York for us. General Grant and Burnside4 paid us a visit a few days ago,  we had no review or any thing of that kind but the Regt just fell in line and Grant rode along and looked at them and then went on about his business.  We are getting quite a large force here and there is considerable speculation as to where we are going, but the general impression is that we will go back to North Carolina and through into Virginia. While Lee moves up from the front towards Richmond, but it seems to me time that something was underway if we are going to do much this Spring. I dont see any signs of our leaving here for some time yet. We are haveing lots of drills, and have been kept pretty buisy since we have been here. Col LeGendre,5 & Capt Sims6 are on to New York yet recruiting, (Sims has been there since last Sept)  Pooley7 is here and just as good natured as ever,  McReady8 is 2d Lieut of my Co but is now in command of Co F  Frank Butler9 is fat as ever. Well Walt it is chilly Sitting here writing so I am going to knock off and go to bed. So Good Night come and see us as soon as you canG. W. Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00818.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Apr 19, 1864",0.213654290766,"  Washington |  Tuesday noon April 19 '64  Dearest Mother, I havn't heard any news from home now in more than a week, I hope you are well, dear Mother, & all the rest too   there is nothing new or different with me   I can only write you the same old story about going to the hospitals &c &c.   I have not heard any thing since from George   have you heard any thing further?1 I have writ to him, to Annapolis   We are having it pretty warm here to-day, after a long spell of rain storms, but the last two or three days very fine   Mother, I suppose you got my letter of last Tuesday, 12th    I went down to the Capitol the nights of the debate on the expulsion of Mr Long2 last week   they had night sessions, very late   I like to go to the House of Representatives at night, it is the most magnificent hall, so rich & large, & lighter at night than it is days, & still not a light visible, it comes through the glass roof   but the speaking & ability of the members is nearly always on a low scale, it is very curious & melancholy to see such a rate of talent there, such tremendous times as these   I should say about the same range of genius as our old friend Dr Swalm,3 just about   you may think I am joking, but I am not, Mother   I am speaking in perfect earnest   the Capitol grows upon one in time, especially as they have got the great figure on top of it now, & you can see it very well, it is a great bronze figure, the Genius of Liberty4 I suppose   it looks wonderful toward sundown, I love to go down & look at it, the sun when it is nearly down shines on the headpiece & it dazzles & glistens like a big star, it looks quite curious    Well, Mother, we have commenced on another summer, & what it will bring forth who can tell?   the campaign of this summer is expected here to be more active & severe than any yet   As I told you in a former letter Grant is determined to bend every thing to take Richmond & break up the banditti of scoundrels that have stuck themselves up there as a ""government""   he is in earnest about it, his whole soul & all his thoughts night & day are upon it   he is probably the most in earnest of any man in command or in the government either   that's something, ain't it, Mother   & they are bending every thing to fight for their last chance   calling in their forces from southwest &c   Dear Mother, give my love to dear brother Jeff & Mat & all   I write this in my room, 6th st    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00155.html," Letter from Lucia Jane Russell Briggs to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 21, 1864",0.21392628859," Mr. Whitman: I have been very much interested in your hospital work, of which I have heard through my brother, Dr. Russell of Boston. I inclose seventy   five dollars, which I have collected among a few friends in Salem, and which I hope may be of some little service to our brave boys, who surely should not suffer while we have the power to help them. You have our warmest sympathy in your generous work, and though sad to witness so much suffering, it is indeed a privilege to be able to do something to alleviate it. I hope to be able to send you an addition to this contribution, and thought of waiting for a larger sum, but I see that you are having numbers of sick sent in to Washington daily, so you will be in immediate want of money.  Very Gratefully Your Friend, Mrs. George W. Briggs, April 21. Salem, Mass.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00819.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Apr 26, 1864",0.21460628315,"  Washington |  April 26 1864  Dearest Mother Burnside's army passed through here yesterday   I saw George & walked with him in the regiment for some distance & had quite a talk   he is very well, he is very much tanned & looks hardy, I told him all the latest news from home   George stands it very well, & looks & behaves the same good & noble fellow he always was & always will be   it was on 14th st.   I watched three hours before the 51st came along   I joined him just before they came to where the President & Gen Burnside were standing with others on a balcony, & the interest of seeing me &c. made George forget to notice the President & salute him   he was a little annoyed at forgetting it   I called his attention to it, but we had passed a little too far on, & George wouldn't turn round even ever so little   however there was a great many (more than half the army) passed without noticing Mr Lincoln & the others, for there was a great crowd all through the streets, especially here, & the place where the President stood was not conspicuous from the rest    The 9th Corps made a very fine show indeed   there were I should think five very full regiments of new black troops under Gen Ferrero,1 they looked & marched very well   It looked funny to see the President standing with his hat off to them just the same as the rest as they passed by   then there [were] Michigan regiments, one of them was a reg't of sharpshooters, partly composed of indians   then there was a pretty strong force of artillery   & a middling force of cavalry, many New York, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, R[hode] I[sland], &c reg'ts   all except the blacks were veterans, seen plenty of fighting   Mother, it is very different to see a real army of fighting men, from one of those shows in Brooklyn, or New York, or on fort Greene    Mother, it was a curious sight to see these ranks after ranks of our own dearest blood of men, mostly young, march by, worn & sunburnt & sweaty, with well worn clothes & their bundles & knapsacks, tin cups & some with frying pans, strapt over their backs, all dirty & sweaty   nothing real neat about them except their muskets, but they were all as clean & bright as silver   they were four or five hours passing along, marching with wide ranks pretty quickly too   it is a great sight to see such a big Army, 25 or 30,000, on the march   they are all so gay too, poor fellows   nothing dampens their spirits   they all got soaked with rain the night before   I saw Fred McReady & Capt Sims, & Col LeGendre2 &c   I dont know exactly where Burnside's army is going   among other rumors it is said they [are] to go [with] the Army of the Potomac to act as a reserve force, &c   another is that they are to make a flank march, to go round & get Lee on the side &c   We know nothing   I havn't been out this morning & dont know what news, only that there is without doubt to be a terrible campaign here in Virginia this summer, & that all who know deepest about it, are very serious about it   Mother, it is serious times   I do not feel to fret or whimper, but in my heart & soul about our country, the army, the forthcoming campaign with all its vicissitudes & the wounded & slain   I dare say, Mother, I feel the reality more than some because I [am] in the midst of its saddest results so much   Others may say what they like, I believe in Grant & in Lincoln too   I think Grant deserves to be trusted, he is working continually   no one knows his plans, we will only know them when he puts them in operation   Our Army is very large here in Virginia this spring & they are still pouring in from east & west   you dont see about it in the papers, but we have very large army here    Mother, I am first rate in health, thank God, I never was better   dear mother, have you got all over that distress & sickness in your head? You must write particular about it   Dear brother Jeff, how are you, & how is Matty?   & how the dear little girls   Jeff, I believe the devil is in it about my writing you, I have laid out so many weeks to write you a good long letter, & something has shoved it off each time   never mind, mother's letters keep you posted   you must write & don't forget to tell me all about sis, is she as good & interesting as she was six months ago? Mother, have you heard any thing from Han? Mother, I have just had my breakfast, I had it in my room, some hard biscuits warmed on stove, & a first rate bowl of strong tea, with good milk & sugar   I have given a Michigan soldier3 his breakfast with me, he relished it too, he has just gone   Mother, I have just heard again that Burnside's troops are to be a reserve to protect Washington, so there may be something in it    Walt It is very fine weather here yesterday & to   day   the hospitals are very full, they are putting up hundreds of hospital tents    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/prc.00007.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Lucia Jane Russell Briggs ,","Apr 26, 1864",0.21460628315,"  Washington / April 26 1864  Dear Madam Your generous remittance of $75 for the wounded & sick was duly received by letter of 21st & is most acceptable. So much good may be done with it. A little I find may go a great ways. It is perhaps like having a store of medicines   the difficulty is not so much in getting the medicines, it is not so important about having a great store, as it is important to apply them by rare perception, honest personal investigation, true love, & if possible the inspiration & tact we in other fields call genius. The hospitals here are again full, as nearly all last week trains were arriving off & on from front with sick. Very many of these however will be transferred north as soon as practicable. Unfortunately large numbers are irreparably injured in these jolting railroad & ambulance journeys, numbers dying on the road.   Of these come in lately, diarrhea, rheumatism & the old camp fevers are most prevalent. The wrecks in these forms of so many hundreds of dear young American men come in lately, are terrible, & make one's heart ache. Numerically the sick are the last four or five weeks becoming alarmingly greater, & in quality the cases grow more intense. I have noticed a steady deepening of this intensity of the cases of sickness, the year & a half I have been with the soldiers. Hospital accommodations here are being extensively added to. Large tents are being put up, & others got ready. My friend, you must accept the men's thanks, through me. I shall remain here among the soldiers in hospital through the summer, with short excursions down in field, & what help you can send me for the wounded & sick I need hardly say how gladly I shall receive it & apply it personally to them.  Walt Whitman  address) Care Major Hapgood / paymaster U S Army / Washington D C  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00821.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Apr 28, 1864",0.214878280974,"  Washington |  April 28 1864  Dearest mother I thought I would write you just a line, though I have nothing of importance   only the talk of the street here seems more & more to assert that Burnside's army is to remain near here to protect Washington & act as a reserve, so that Grant can move the Army of the Potomac upon Richmond, without being compelled to turn & be anxious about the Capital   also that Burnside can attend to Lee if the latter should send any force up west of here, (what they call the valley of the Shenandoah)   or invade Pennsylvania again   I thought you would like to hear this   it looks plausible, but there are lots of rumors of all kinds   I cannot hear where Burnside's army is as they dont allow the papers to print army movements   but I fancy they are very near Washington, the other side of Arlington heights, this moment1    Mother, I wrote yesterday to Han, & sent one of George's last letters from Annapolis   Mother, I suppose you got my letter of Tuesday 26th   I have not heard any thing from you in quite a little while   I am still well   the weather is fine, quite hot yesterday   Mother, I am now going down to see a poor soldier who is very low with a long diarrhea   he cannot recover   when I was with him last night, he asked me before I went away to ask God's blessing on him, he says, I am no scholar & you are   poor dying man, I told him I hoped from the bottom of my heart God would bless him, & bring him up yet   I soothed him as well as I could, it was affecting, I can tell you   Jeff, I wrote to Mr Kirkwood2 yesterday to 44 Pierrepont st., he sent me some money last Monday   is Probasco3 still in the store in N Y?   dear sister Mat, I quite want to see you & California, not forgetting my little Hattie too    Walt  2 o'clock, 28th April  Dearest mother, Just as I am going to mail this, I receive authentic information. Burnside's army is now about 16 or 18 miles south of here, at a place called Fairfax court house   They had last night no orders to move at present, & I rather think they will remain there, or near there   What I have written before, as a rumor, about their being to be held as a reserve, to act wherever occasion may need them, is now quite decided on   You may hear a rumor in New York that they have been shipped in transports from Alexandria   there is no truth in it at all   Grant's Army of the Potomac is probably to do the heavy work   his army is strong & full of fight. Mother, I think it is today the noblest army of soldiers that ever marched   nobody can know the men so well as I do, I sometimes think    Mother, I am writing this in Willard's hotel,4 on my way down to hospital after I leave this at post office   I shall come out to dinner at 4 o'clock & then go back to hospital again in evening    Good bye, dear Mother, & all    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00353.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 29, 1864",0.215014279886,"  Bristoe Station   Apl 29th64 Dear Brother Walt. I thought I would write you a word to say that I am perfectly well and hearty We arrived here last night about dark, and are going to fall in, in a few minutes to move on towards Warrenton I believe. I hear that Grant has issued an order, that no letters will be allowed to be sent from this army for the next Sixty days. If that is the case Walt you must tell Mother not to feel the least bit worried if she does not hear from me in some time. I send this by Adjt McKee2 who is going to Washington for a day or two I can tell you nothing about the army, more than you already know everyone seems to be in good spirits and hopefull. I sent my trunk from Annapolis to Washingt to our Sutler, who keeps a place in Washington  his name is L. Kipps  cor of F & 9th St  Model House G. W. Whit "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00368.html," Letter from Reuben Farwell to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 30, 1864",0.215150278798," Kind Friend As you requested me to write you after leaving the Hospital. I will do so for the first time. My wishes are that this may find you enjoying good health and plenty of kind friends to associate with. I have not been over to Armory Square Hospital since leaveing it   . But have been expecting to call there and also to see you The orders here are very strict  no one is allowed out side of Camp without a pass and the passes are scarse I shall manage to see you before I leave for the front if possible We are to get our horses in a day or so, and then be off to joine our Regiments The News are dull concerning the movements of the Army but for all that we expect to hear of a hard fought Battle before long. I think that we will be sent out as reenforcements so much the better Now Uncle I hope you will not believe that I had or have forgoten you. I will write again when at the front & perhaps have something more worth writing about. I will close by expecting to have a better opportunity of writing some thing else when you hear from me again My health is good at present   believe me ever your friend  Ruben Farwell  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00822.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","May 3, 1864",0.215558275534,"  Washington |  May 3 1864  Dearest Mother I rec'd your letter dated last Friday afternoon, with one from Mr Heyde   it seems by that Han is better, but as you say it would be much more satisfactory if Han would write to us herself   Mother, I believe I told you I sent a letter to Han last week, enclosing one of George's from Annapolis   I was glad to get Heyde's letter though, as it was   Mother, I am sorry you still have returns of your cold, does it affect your head like it did?   dear Mother, I do hope you will not expose yourself, nor work too much, but take things easier    I have nothing different to write about the war, or movements here   what I wrote last Thursday about Burnside's corps being probably used as a reserve, is still talked of here, & seems to be probable   a large force is necessary to guard the railroad between here & Culpepper, & also to keep for any emergency that might happen, & I shouldn't wonder if the 9th would be used for such purpose, at least for the present   I think the 51st must be down not very far from Fairfax Court House yet, but I havn't heard certain    Mother, I have seen a person up from front this morning   there is no movement yet & no fighting started   the men are in their camps yet   Gen Grant is at Culpepper   You need not pay the slightest attention to such things as you mention in the Eagle,1 about the 9th corps   the writer of it, & very many of the writers on war matters in those papers dont know one bit more on what they are writing about than Ed does    Mother, you say in your letter you got my letter the previous afternoon   why, Mother, you ought to got it Wednesday forenoon, or afternoon at furthest   this letter now will get in New York Wednesday morning, by day light   you ought to get it before noon   the postmaster in Brooklyn must have a pretty set of carriers, to take twice as long to take a letter from New York to you as does to go from Washington to N Y   Mother, I suppose you got a letter from me Friday also   as I wrote a second letter on Thursday last, telling you the 9th Corps was camped then about sixteen miles from here    About George's pictures, perhaps you better wait till I hear from him, before sending them    I remain well as usual   the poor fellow I mentioned in one of my letters last week, with diarrhea, that wanted me to ask God's blessing on him, was still living yesterday afternoon, but just living, he is only partially conscious, is all wasted away to nothing, & lies most of the time in half stupor, as they give him brandy copiously   yesterday I was there by him a few minutes, he is very much averse to taking brandy, & there was some trouble in getting him to take it, he is almost totally deaf the last five or six days   there is no chance for him at all   Quite a particular friend of mine, Oscar Cunningham,2 an Ohio boy, had his leg amputated yesterday close up by the thigh, it was a pretty tough operation   he was badly wounded just a year ago to-day at Chancellorsville, & has suffered a great deal, lately got erysipelas in his leg & foot   I forget whether I have mentioned him before or not   he was a very large noble looking young man when I first see him   the doctor thinks he will live & get up, but I consider [it] by no means so certain   he is very much prostrated    Well, dear Mother, you must write, & Jeff too   I do want to see you all very much   how does Mat get along, & how little sis & all? I send my love to you & Jeff & all   we are having a very pleasant coolish day here   I am going down to post office to leave this, & then up to my old friends O'Connors, to dinner, & then down to hospital   Well good by, dear Mother, for present    Walt Tuesday afternoon 3 o'clock   Mother, just as I was going to seal my letter, Major Hapgood has come in from the P O & brings me a few lines from George, which I enclose   you will see they were written four days ago3    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00369.html," Letter from Reuben Farwell to Walt Whitman ,","May 5, 1864",0.215830273358,"   Dear Uncle I have nothing of much consequence to write you this morning. A fine day this is likely to be although I am on guard. Yesterday I was over to the City & saw the Boys in Ward. A. . I also went to your residence but found you absent  I enquired where you had gone & when you would be at home  I could get no information on that subject, therefore I returned to the Hospital then to this Camp. I was disappointed in not seeing you  I came over on that Errand. But alas I came back without seeing you. Perhaps I will see you before I am sent a way to the front if possible Orders are very strict in this camp also through out the defences of Washington that is one reason why I had rather be sent to the Regiment I would not stay around this City the rest of my time in service for a considerable a mount of Pork & Soft Bread Walt yours I received after I returned from the City to the Camp. It came all right side up I was very glad to have you write & I will scribble this as an answer at your request that you may know I received your kind & welcome letter. My best wishes are with you for indeed I have found a Friend at last to the poor Soldier I will close this by hopeing to hear from you again   Ever Your Friend  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00823.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","May 6, 1864",0.21596627227,"  Washington |  May 6, 1864  Dearest mother I write you a few lines, as I know you feel anxious these times   I suppose the New York papers must have it in this morning that the Army of the Potomac has made a move, & has crossed the Rapidan river1   at any rate that is the case   as near as I can learn about Burnside's army, that lies in the rear of the Army of the Potomac, (from Warrenton, Virginia, & so to Rappahannock river & up toward Manassas)   it still appears to be kept as a reserve, & for emergencies &c. I have not heard any thing from the 51st. Mother, of course you got my letter of Tuesday, 3d, with the letter from George dated Bristoe station   I have writ to George since, and addressed the letter Warrenton, Va., or elsewhere, thinking he might get it    Mother, the idea is entertained quite largely here that the rebel army will retreat to Richmond, as it is well known that Grant is very strong, (most folks say too strong for Lee)   I suppose you know we menace them almost as much from up Fortress Monroe as we do from the Rapidan   Butler & W F Smith2 are down there with at least fifty or sixty thousand men, & will move up simultaneously with Grant   the occasion is serious, & anxious, but somehow I am full of hope   & feel that we shall take Richmond   (I hope to go there yet before the hot weather is past)   dear mother, I hope you are well & little California   love to Jeff & Mat & all    Walt Mother, you ought to get this letter Saturday forenoon, as it will be in N Y by sunrise Saturday 7th    Mother,3 the poor soldier with diarrhea is still living, but O what a looking object, death would be a boon to him, he cannot last many hours   Cunningham, the Ohio boy with leg amputated at thigh, has picked up beyond expectation, now looks altogether like getting well   the hospitals are very full   I am very well indeed   pretty warm here to   day      2 o'clock p m Friday 6th  Mother, just as I put this letter in the mail there is an extra out here that Grant has advanced his army or a portion of it to the region of the Chancellorsville battle of just a year ago, & has either flanked Lee, as they call it, (got in on his army between him & Richmond)   or else that Lee has hurried back, or is hurrying back to Richmond    Whether there is any thing in this story or not, I cannot tell   the city is full of rumors & this may be one of them   the government is not in receipt of any information to-day   Grant has taken the reins entirely in his own hands   he is really dictator at present   we shall hear something important within two or three days   Grant is very secretive indeed   he bothers himself very little about sending news even to the President or Stanton   time only can develope his plans   I still think he is going to take Richmond & soon, (but I may be mistaken as I have been in past)   Well, dearest mother, keep up good courage, good bye for present   I wish you would write soon    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00162.html," Letter from John F. S. Gray to Walt Whitman ,","May 7, 1864",0.216102271182,   Good bye! We are suddenly ordered away to the South-west.  I will write you when we get settled!   
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00161.html," Letter from Isaac Livensparger to Walt Whitman ,","May 7, 1864",0.216102271182," Dear Father, As I always wish to fulfill my promises I will enjoy this afternoon in writing a letter in order to let you know how I got home and how my health is    So I left Washington that evening at 5 Oc and got to Baltimore at 7 and left at 6 and got to Harisburg at two in the night. I changed cars and was off in a few minutes in the morning of the 4th Wednesday a train just a head of us run off track and was hurt which throwed us back six hours we ought to have got to Pittsburg at one that day But did not get in until after six then I had to wait until two in the night   But I was glad of it. I went to the Soldiers Home and got my supper and took a good sleep   I left Pittsburg a little after 2 after that we run right through   I got to Bucyrus just in time for dinner. I had good luck there was one of my Fathers old acquaintances there in a bugy [took me] straight on home to the door whar I had a grand interunion with my friends   I found all of them in good health   they were a little supprised to see me but they had been looking for me every day for a long time everything is a month behind things in Washington    It snowed all day this Monday the roads are very bad people are just getting their roads [open] the trees are just beginning to put forth their leafs. If my friend is in the Hospital yet tell him I got home all right   I guess I will close by biding you good by for this time and request from you to send a letter in return at some later time. I am very respectfully your soldier boy Isaac Livensparger, Address Lykens, Crawford Co[unty] Ohio   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00145.html," Letter from Helen S. Cunningham to Walt Whitman ,","May 9, 1864",0.216374269006," Mr. Walt Whitman I will address you a short time through the medium of the pen  I am thankfull I have the privelige of doing so that I may tell you in part how gratefull we are to you for your kindness to one so dear to us as Oscar is  I feel as if you was his true friend2. I am glad you feel an interest in him while he is sick and among strangers.  I recd your letter of the 5 inst [This letter is currently lost], the evening of the 7. We had been apprised of Oscars loss by a lady by the name of Hatch which I think was very kind of her  oh with what a throbing heart did I open your letter  I was fearfull it contained worse news. the loss of a limb is bad enough but how much worse we would have felt had not his life been spared but poor fellow he must have sufered almost everything but death in the last year. he never has told us realy how bad he was yet we knew he was suffering verry much all the time or he would have got along faster than he did and I have long thought it would be necessary to amputate his limb before he would get well. We are all rejoiced to hear you speak in such favorable terms of his recovery yet we feel he is not out of danger  I believe God will answer our prayers and restore him to health and friends and more is our daily prayer, may the good God be with him and strengthen him in this his affliction    if you and Oscar both think I had better not come I suppose I will have to stay at home. I felt as though it was my duty to go to him for he is one of the dearest brothers ever was given to a sister. Father & Mother send many thanks & kind wishes to you  they can never forget you for your kindness to Oscar and if ever in any way they could repay your they will do it. we will ever feel gratefull to you for what you have been to him   tell Oscar we are all well & simpathise with him in all his trouble & that I will write tomorrow or next day. I wrote him last friday. we will espect to hear from him this week again and you will tell us just how he is getting along  do not conceal his suffering from us any more  I do hope he may gain strength very fast and think he will if the disease had not worked up in his body. Please write to us as often as convenient and you will greatly oblige   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00824.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","May 9, 1864",0.216374269006,"  Washington |  Monday 2 o'clock   May 9th  Dearest Mother There is nothing from the army more than you know, in the N Y papers   the fighting has been hard enough, but the papers make lots of additional items, & a good deal that they just entirely make up   there are from 600 to 1000 wounded coming up here   (not 6 to 8000 as the papers have it)1   I cannot hear what part the 9th corps took in the fight, of Friday & afterwards, nor whether they really took any at all   (they, the papers, are determined to make up just any thing)    Mother, I rec'd your letter & Han's   & was glad indeed to get both   Mother, you must not be under such apprehension, as I think it is not warranted2    So far as we get news here, we are gaining the day, so far, decidedly   if the news we hear is true that Lee has been repulsed & driven back by Grant, & that we are masters of the field, & pursuing them   then I think Lee will retreat, south   & Richmond will be abandoned by the rebs   but of course time only can develope what will happen    Mother, I will write again Wednesday, or before if I hear any thing to write   love to Jeff & Mat & all    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00370.html," Letter from Reuben Farwell to Walt Whitman ,","May 10, 1864",0.216510267918,"   Dear Comrad Yours received last night. and need I tell you that I am unwilling to answer yours. When there is so much stir & confusion No I will tell you that we are about to leave this Camp for better or worse To the front I suppose is the place of our destination Last Night we went to the wharf to get each a horse But I had to returne to camp with out one because there were not enough to supply us all This Morning we the Veterans or old Soldiers have to take horses & the New recruits remain in Camp We will be sent a way from here before to Morrow Night I think, which would suit me very well for I am sick of staying around this cursed place  I will try & see you before I cross the long Bridge but if I can not get a chance, I hope you will write whenever convient   Give my best respects to the Boys on Ward. A.  Believe me ever Your Friend  Reuben Farwell  I will try & write you when to the front   In hast  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00825.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","May 10, 1864",0.216510267918,"  Washington |  May 10 '64 (½ past 2 | p m)  Dearest Mother, There is nothing perhaps more than you see in the N Y papers   the fighting down in the field on the 6th I think ended in our favor, though with pretty severe losses to some of our divisions   the fighting is about 70 miles from here & 50 from Richmond   on the 7th & 8th followed up by the rebel army hauling off, they say retreating, & Meade pursuing   it is quite mixed yet, but I guess we have the best of it   if we really have, Richmond is a goner, for they cannot do any better than they have done   how much the 9th corps was in the fight, & where, I cannot tell yet, but from the wounded I have seen I dont think that corps was deeply in   I have seen 300 wounded, they came in last night, I asked for men of 9th corps, but could not find any at all   these 300 men were not badly wounded, mostly in arms, hands, trunk of body, &c.   they could all walk, though some had an awful time of it   they had to fight their way, with the worst in the middle, out of the region of Fredericksburgh, & so on where they could get across the Rappahannock & get where they found transportation to Washington   the gov't has decided (or rather Gen Meade has) to occupy Fredericksburgh,1 for depot & hospitals   (I think that a first rate decision)   so the wounded men will receive quick attention & surgery, instead of being racked through the long journey up here   still may come in here   Mother, my impression is that we have no great reason for alarm or sadness about George so far   of course I know nothing   Well good by, dearest mother, Walt    Mother, I wrote you yesterday too   tell dear brother Jeff to write me   love to Mat   the poor diarrhea man2 died, & it was a boon   Oscar Cunningham, 82d Ohio, has had a relapse, I fear it is going bad with him   lung diseases are quite plenty   night before last I staid in hospital all night tending a poor fellow   it has been awful hot here   milder to-day    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00826.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","May 12, 1864",0.216782265742,"  May 12th | ½ past 5 P M  Dearest Mother George is all right, unhurt, up to Tuesday morning, 10th inst   the 51st was in a bad battle last Friday, lost 20 killed, between 40 & 50 wounded   I have just seen some of the 51st wounded, just arrived, one of them Fred Saunders, Corp[oral], Co K, George's company   he said when he left the 51st was in rear on guard duty   he left Tuesday mn'g last   the papers have it that Burnside's Corps was in a fight Tuesday, but I think it most probable the 51st was not in it    Fred McReady is wounded, badly, but not seriously   Sims is safe   you see LeGendre is wounded   he was shot through the bridge of nose1    Mother, you ought to get this Friday forenoon, 13th   I will write again soon   wrote once before to-day2    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00827.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","May 13, 1864",0.216918264654,"  Washington |  May 13 1864 | 2 o'clock p m  Dearest Mother I wrote you a hurried letter late yesterday afternoon, but left it myself at the P O in time for the mail   you ought to have got it this forenoon, or afternoon at furthest   I sent you two letters yesterday   I hope the carrier brings you your letters the same day   I wrote to the Brooklyn postmaster about it    I have heard from George up to Tuesday morning last, 10th, till which time he was safe   the battle of Friday 6th was very severe   George's co. K lost one acting Lt Sturgis killed, 2 men killed, 4 wounded   as I wrote yesterday I have seen here Corp Fred Sanders of Co K who was wounded in side, nothing serious, in Friday's fight, & came up here   I also talked with Sgt Brown,1 co F, 51st   rather badly wounded in right shoulder   Sanders said when he left Tuesday morning, he heard (or saw them there, I forget which) the 51st & its whole division were on guard duty toward the rear   the 9th Corps however has had hard fighting since, but whether the division, or brigade the 51st is in, was in the fights of Tuesday, 10th (a pretty severe one,) or Wednesday I cannot yet tell, & it is useless to make calculations   & the only way is to wait & hope for the best   as I wrote yesterday there were some 20 of 51st reg't killed & 50 wounded in Friday's battle, 6th inst    I have seen Col LeGendre, he is here in Washington, not far from where I am   485 12th st is his address   poor man, I felt sorry indeed for him, he is badly wounded & disfigured, he is shot through the bridge of the nose, & left eye probably lost   I spent a little time with him this forenoon   he is suffering very much   spoke of George very kindly, said ""your brother is well""   his orderly told me he saw him (George) Sunday night last well   Fred McReady is wounded in hip, I believe bone fractured, bad enough, but not deeply serious   I cannot hear of his arrival here, if he comes I shall find him immediately & take care of him myself   he is probably yet at Fredericksburgh, but will come up I think2    Yesterday & to-day the badly wounded are coming in   the long lists of previous arrivals, (I suppose they are all reprinted at great length in N Y papers)3 are of men ¾ths of them quite slightly wounded, & the rest hurt pretty bad   I was thinking, mother, if one could see the men who arrived in the first squads, of two or three hundred at a time, one wouldn't be alarmed at those terrible long lists   Still there is a sufficient sprinkling of deeply distressing cases   I find my hands full all the time, with new & old cases   poor suffering young men, I think of them, & do try, Mother, to do what I can for them, (& not think of the vexatious skedaddlers & merely scratched ones, of whom there are too many lately come here)    Dearest Mother, I hope you & all are well   you must keep a good heart   still the fighting is very mixed, but it seems steadily turning into real successes for Grant   the news to-day here is very good   you will see it in N Y papers   I steadily believe Grant is going to succeed, & that we shall have Richmond   but O what a price to pay for it   We have had a good rain here & it is pleasanter & cooler   I shall write very soon again    Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00228.html," Letter from Aaron Smith to Walt Whitman ,","May 14, 1864",0.217054263566,"  Carver HospitalWashington D.C. May 14th 1864  MrWalt WhitmanDear Sir Will you please come to this Hospital as soon as possible, and see a member of your Brothers Company. immediately after I was wounded the Capt gave me your address and told me to send for you as soon as I got here. I arrived here this morning. You will find me in Ward 23.  Very Respy Your Obdt Servt Aaron Smith  P.S. I will enclose the Capt's address to youAS  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/wcu.00002.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Hannah Heyde Whitman ,","May 15, 1864",0.217190262478,"  Brooklyn, May 15, 1864  Dear sister Han, Mother duly received your last letter and glad were we to hear from you again. Of course the great topic of thought and talk with us all just now is about George. We yesterday received a letter1 from Walt saying that he had heard from George up to last Tuesday at noon and that up to that time he was all right. He had lost quite a number of his company   his first Lieutenant   but was himself unhurt. Oh I do so hope that George may get through safe. What a blessing twill be if he does escape   and yet I hardly dare hope   it does not seem possible that one can go through so much and come out entirely unharmed, but oh for mother's sake I do so hope he may escape. Mother is getting very old and I fear the worst results if anything should happen to George. If we hear anything more be assured I will not fail to write you at once. So Han you have got a mansion of your own   I hope you won't get proud and not shirk to your poor relations. Well Han, since we have seen each other I have also been doing pretty well. I have a wife and two babies to see to. Think of that with butter at 40°   However we manage to move along   I am still in the water office   engineering    have a pleasant place and a pretty good time. I am much worried dear sister to see that you don't get much better   that you are so unwell. I was in hopes that when the spring came that you get all right again. You must keep up your courage and take good care of yourself and you will come around all right in a short time. I see you feel pretty bad about George's not coming down to see [you]. Poor fellow, he wanted to come bad enough but when he was on he had a long time to get his company mustered in or out. I believe the next day after he got through with that he was ordered to recruit in Brooklyn. Did you know that the officers did not have any furlough? They did not and had to report for duty regularly   yet George did not expect to leave so soon and thought he would be about to get leave to visit you. Han, write to mother (and me too) as often as you can. Mother is pretty well, much better I think than we have reason to expect at her age. We often talk about you and wish that you would come on and see us. Mother often speaks of coming on to see you and if George comes out all right, you need not be thrown into a flurry if you see an old lady and young man (perhaps good looking) coming along your way   that would be mother and George, or mother and I (if I then the part in bracket comes in). Good bye dear sister   write us soon   all send their love   affectionately your brother Jeff. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00354.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","May 16, 1864",0.21732626139,"  Near Spotselvania Court House, Va    May 16th 1864 Dear Mother I have just heard that there will be a chance to send letters home this morning, and I improve the oppernitunity to let you know that I am all right so far. We had a pretty hard battle on the 6th. I dont know what the battle is called but it was about 5 miles from Germania Ford on the Rapidan River.1 our Regt. suffered severely loseing 70 in killed and wounded.2 I lost nearly half of my Co but we won the fight and the rebel loss was pretty heavy. We came here on the 8th and there has been fighting going on every day since we came here.3 We have had the best of the fighting so far and its my opinion that Genl Grant has got Lee in a pretty tight spot. We had a severe fight here on the 12th and the loss was heavy on both sides  our Regt lost 20 in killed and wounded  our forces took about 8000 prisoner[s?] and 40 peices of Artillery. We are now lying in Rifle pitts and things are very quiet this morning. We have plenty to eat and get along very well. The Army is in first rate spirits and everyone seems confident and hopefull. I have not time to say much at present Mother but when I do get time I will write you a good long letter. You must not feel at all worried about me but take things Cool and comfortable as I do and above all dont worry. Much love to all. Good Bye. George."
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00828.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","May 18, 1864",0.217598259214,"  Washington |  May 18 1864  Dearest Mother, I will only write you a hasty note this time, as I am pretty tired, & my head feels disagreeable, from being in too much   I was up yesterday to Carver hospital & again saw the man of the 51st, Thos McCowell,1 who told me of George, up to latter part of Thursday, 12th inst. I questioned him, & his story was very clear, so I felt perfectly satisfied   he is wounded in hand, will be transferred soon to New York & may call on you   he is a young Irishman, & seems to be a very good fellow indeed    I have written to George, day before yesterday. Did you send my last letter to Han?   if not send it yet   Mother, I see such awful things   I expect one of these days, if I live, I shall have awful thoughts & dreams   but it is such a great thing to be able to do some real good, assuage these horrible pains & wounds, & save life even   that's the only thing that keeps a fellow up    Well, dear mother, I make such reckoning of yet coming on & seeing you   how I want to see Jeff too   O it is too bad I have not written to him so long   & Mat too & little California & all   I am going out now a little while   I remain first rate & well as ever    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00355.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","May 20, 1864",0.217870257038,"  Near SpotsylvaniaCourt House Va   May 20th 64 Dear Mother. I wrote you a few lines from this place a few days ago,1 and since then we have been steadily gaining ground but there has been no very decisive battle fought yet, although I think so far, the fighting has decidedly been in our favor. Our Regt. had a brush day before yesterday. We started out about 3 Oclock in the morning on a sort of a reconisance to feel the enemy's lines. We entered a wood where the enemy were known to be in strong force behind their breastworks, and we soon stired them up. They opened on us with two batteries of Artillery but we were so close to them that they could not depress their guns enough to do us much damage. Their Infantry lay behind their rifle pitts poping away at us. but we stayed there from 4 Oclock n the monring to 3 in the afternoon and then we were ordered back to our rifle pitts that we left in the morning when we made the advance. There was 4 or 5 other Regts sent in to support us if the Rebs came out of their works too strong for us but our Regt. had the advance and for an hour and a half before we came out we were all alone, as our supports had been withdrawn, but we were ordered to fall back to our rifle pitts if we were too hotly pressed. I lost one man killed and two wounded in my Co out of 11 that I took in the fight.2 The Regt lost 22 killed and wounded. About One Oclock yesterday morning we were relieved in the rifle pitts and withdrawn to the rear, where we are now, resting ourselves and having good times. Mother I suppose you know how we are getting along, better than we do ourselves, for I expect the newspaper correspondents keep you pretty well posted as to our movements, and here there are so many rumors flying around, that a fellow only knows, what he sees himself. Dear Mother I hear the mail is about leaving now so I must close. I got a letter from Walt yesterday dated May 4th. I shall not have time to write to him this time so you must let him know that I am all right  Mother let me hear from you directly. Give my love to all G W Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/sta.00001.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to John Townsend Trowbridge ,","May 20, 1864",0.217870257038,"  Washington |  May 20 1864  Dear friend2 Your welcome gift of money for wounded here, ($5) came safe to-day & is most acceptable   Most of wounded brought up here now are without a cent   Many of the cases appeal very strongly   (I sometimes think only one going among the men as I do, with personal feeling & my own way of investigation understands how deep & what sort the appeal is)   the hospitals are very full   Armory Square has more inmates than many a well known New England village   I go as usual to one or another hospital & to Alexandria, day & night    Dear friend, I shall always be glad to hear from you   Should you find any you know who are able & who feel to aid the wounded, through me, it would come very acceptable now   sure to reach addressed Walt Whitman Care Major Hapgood | Paymaster U S Army | Washington D C J T Trowbridge | Somerville | Massachusetts  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00829.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Thomas Jefferson Whitman ,","May 23, 1864",0.218278253774,"  Washington |  Monday forenoon May 23 '64  Dear brother Jeff I received your letter yesterday   I too had got a few lines from George dated on the field, 16th   he said he had also just written to mother   I cannot make out there has been any fighting since in which the 9th Corps has been engaged   I do hope Mother will not get despondent & so unhappy   I suppose it is idle to say I think George's chances are very good for coming out of this campaign safe, yet at present it seems to me so   but it is indeed idle to say so, for no one can tell what a day may bring forth1    Sometimes I think that should it come, when it must be, to fall in battle, one's anguish over a son or brother killed, would be tempered with much to take the edge off   I can honestly say it has no terrors for me, if I had to be hit in battle, as far as I myself am concerned   it would be a noble & manly death, & in the best cause   then one finds, as I have the past year, that our feelings & imaginations make a thousand times too much of the whole matter   Of the many I have seen die, or known of, the past year, I have not seen or heard of one who met death with any terror   Yesterday afternoon I spent a good part of the afternoon with a young man of 17, named Charles Cutter,2 of Lawrence City, Mass, 1st Mass heavy artillery, battery M   he was brought in to one of the hospitals mortally wounded in abdomen   Well I thought to myself as I sat looking at him, it ought to be a relief to his folks after all, if they could see how little he suffered   he lay very placid, in a half lethargy, with his eyes closed, it was very warm, & I sat a long while fanning him & wiping the sweat, at length he opened his eyes quite wide & clear, & looked inquiringly around. I said, What is it, my dear, do you want any thing?   he said quietly with a good natured smile, O nothing, I was only looking around to see who was with me   his mind was somewhat wandering, yet he lay so peaceful, in his dying condition   he seemed to be a real New England country boy, so good natured, with a pleasant homely way, & quite a fine looking boy   without any doubt he died in course of night    There dont seem to be any war news of importance very late   We have been fearfully disappointed with Sigel3 not making his junction from the lower part of the valley, & perhaps harrassing Lee's left, or left rear, which (the junction or equivalent to it) was an indispensable part of Grant's plan, we think   this is one great reason why things have lagged so with the Army   some here are furious with Sigel, you will see he has been superseded   his losses in his repulse are not so important, though annoying enough, but it was of the greatest consequence that he should have hastened through the gaps ten or twelve days ago at all hazards & come in from the west, keeping near enough to our right to have assistance if he needed it   Jeff, I suppose you know that there has been quite a large army lying idle, mostly of artillery reg'ts manning the numerous forts around here, they have been the fattest & heartiest reg'ts any where to be seen, & full in numbers, some of them numbering 2000 men   well, they have all, every one, been shoved down to the front   lately we have had the militia reg'ts pouring in here mostly from Ohio, they look first rate, I saw two or three come in yesterday, splendid American young men, from farms mostly   we are to have them for a hundred days & probably they will not refuse to stay another hundred   Jeff, tell mother I shall write Wednesday certain (or if I hear any thing I will write to-morrow)   I still think we shall get Richmond    Walt    Jeff, of course you must take this up to mother soon as you go home   Jeff, I have changed my quarters   I moved Saturday last   I am now at 502 Pennsylvania av, near 3d st.   I still go a little almost daily to Major Hapgood's, cor 15th & F st., 5th floor, am apt to be there about 12 or 1.   I am well, go the same among wounded day & night   see Fred McReady, & others of 51st   George's letter to me of 16th I sent to Han   should like to see Mr Worthen4 if he comes here   give my best remembrance to Mr Lane5    I have writ to George several times in hopes one at least may reach him   Matty, my dear sister, how are [you] getting along   O how I should like to see you this very day    I may very likely go down for a few days to Bell Plain & Fredericksburgh, but one is wanted here permanently more than any other place     "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00879.html," Letter from W. E. Worthen to Walt Whitman ,","May 23, 1864",0.218278253774,  New York May 23  Dear Sir Enclosed find $20 which I have collected for yr Sanitary distribution.  I hope I shall be able to send more from time to time.  I am yrs try W. E. Worthen1 Address care of D. Appleton Ho.  
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00830.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","May 25, 1864",0.218550251598,"  Washington |  May 25 1864  Dearest Mother I have not heard any thing of George or the reg't or Corps more than I have already written   I got Jeff's letter on Sunday, & wrote to him next day, which you have seen, mother, of course   I have written to Han & sent her George's letter to me dated 16th   I have heard that the 9th Corps has been moved to the extreme left of the Army   I should think by acc'ts this morning that the Army must be nearly half way from Fredericksburgh to Richmond1   the advance can't be more than 30 to 35 miles from there    I see Fred McReady about every other day, I have to go down to Alexandria, about 6 miles from here   he is doing quite well, but very tired of the confinement   I still go around daily & nightly among wounded   Mother, it is just the same old story, poor suffering young men, great swarms of them come up here, now, every day, all battered & bloody   there have 4000 arrived here this morning, & 1500 yesterday   they appear to be bringing them all up here from Fredericksburgh   the journey from the field till they get aboard the boats at Bell Plain is horrible   I believe I wrote several times about Oscar Cunningham, 82d Ohio, amputation of right leg, wounded over a year ago, a friend of mine here, he is rapidly sinking, said to me yesterday, O if he could only die   the young lad Cutter, of 1st Massachusetts heavy artillery, I was with Sunday afternoon, (I wrote about in Jeff's letter,) still holds out, poor boy, there is no chance for him at all    But, Mother, I shall make you gloomy enough if I go on with these kind of particulars   Only I know you like to hear about the poor young men, after I have once begun to mention them   Mother, I have changed my quarters   am at 502 Pennsylvania av. near 3d street, only a little way from the Capitol   where I was, the house was sold & the old lady I hired the room from had to move out & give the owner possession   I like my new quarters pretty well   I have a room to myself, 3d story hall bedroom, I have my meals in the house. Mother, it must be sad enough about Nance, & the young ones   is the little baby still hearty, I believe you wrote a few weeks after it was born that it was quite a fine child2   I see you had a draft in the 3d Congressional district, I was glad enough to see Jeff's name was not drawn   We have had it awful hot here, but there was a sharp storm of thunder & lightning last night, & to-day it is fine   Mother, do any of the soldiers I see here, from Brooklyn or New York, ever call upon you?   they sometimes say they will, here   tell Jeff I got a letter yesterday from W E Worthen, in which he sent me some money for the men, I have acknowledged it to Mr W by letter3   Well, dear mother, I must close, O how I want to see you all   I will surely have to come home as soon as this Richmond campaign is decided   then I want to print my next book   love to Mat   write to a fellow often as you can    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00163.html," Letter from Charles H. Harris to Walt Whitman ,","May 30, 1864",0.219230246158," Dear Uncle As i shal now clame you four you remain as dear to me as mi one [relation] Wal Uncle i got home all lonely only i was mity tiard whin i arrived i ni Brattelboro but i am fuly wal Reasted now as four mi wound i dont think it is as wal as it was whin i left Washington but i think it will be all rite after a while  Charles Dunkler get home all rite also he sens his love to you Oh Uncle i wish you ware hear in old Vermont with me  we wod have some late old times fishing a mong the green mountains that what master  Wal Uncle i soppose that you like on the old court Register now as ever  oh the boys must think a good deal of you i wish i had see you now i most Pay the wine it seames lonesome hear without you but Nevr mind i woant be long before i shal be whare i Can see you once mour i told mi folks about you thay think thr soldier Boys out to think a grate Deal of you whin i arived in Brattleboro i found mi folks all wal i tel you whot theay was very glat to se mi and also the Girls   oh Pleas giv mi love to Miss Howard2 and also to dear Carter3 also to Miss Gregg4, wont you about mi Photograph i will send it to you in mi next letter Wal Uncle i have no moare now to write this time Ples giv mi love to all mi [ac]quainize frinds i will Close now by saying good By Dear Uncle wishing to hear from you son   From year Ever tru young friend   Ples Excuse all mistakes an Bad Writing Also Excuse mi shoart letter this tim an i will try and Do Better in my next  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00831.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","May 30, 1864",0.219230246158,"  Washington |  May 30 1864  Dearest Mother I have no news at all to write this time   I have not heard any thing of the 51st since I last wrote you, & about the general war news only what you see in the papers   Grant is gradually getting nearer & nearer to Richmond   Many [here] anticipate that should Grant go into Richmond, Lee will make a side movement & march up west, into the north, either to attempt to strike Washington, or to go again into Pennsylvania   I only say if that should happen, I for one shall not be dissatisfied so very much    Well, mother, how are you getting along home   how do you feel in health these days, dear mother   I hope you are well & in good heart yet   I remain pretty well, my head begins to trouble me a little with a sort of fulness, as it often does in the hot weather   Singular to relate the 1st Mass artillery boy, Charles Cutter, is still living, & may get well   I saw him this morning   I am still around among wounded same, but will not make you feel blue by filling my letter with sad particulars    I am writing this in Willard's hotel, hurrying to catch this afternoon's mail   Mother, do you get your letters now next morning, as you ought? I got a letter from the Post Master of Brooklyn about it   he said if the letters were neglected again to send him word   I have not heard from home now in some days   I am going to put up a lot of my old things in a box & send them home by express, I will write when I send them   Have you heard any thing from Mary or Han lately   I should like to hear    Tell Jeff he must write, & you must too, Mother   I have been in one of the worst hospitals all the forenoon, it contains about 1600   I have given the men pipes & tobacco, (I am the only one that gives them tobacco)   O how much good it does some of them   the chaplains & most of the doctors are down upon it   but I give them & let them smoke   to others I have given oranges, fed them, &c   well, dear mother, good bye   love to Matty & sis    Walt Fred McReady is coming home very soon on furlough   have any of the soldiers called on you? "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00146.html," Letter from Justus F. Boyd to Walt Whitman ,","Jun 1, 1864",0.219502243982, Friend Whitman I just received a letter from an Uncle of mine that is in Campbell Hospital and enclosed I found an Envelope with your address so I thought I would write a few lines to you I shall expect an answer from this I shall look with all the eyes I have got for the answer until I receive although I may look for the next year & a half as I have done and then not get any answer  I would give a considerable to see you about two hours There is a friend of mine just gone to Washington he has got an appointment as clerk in the Treasury he is about 20 years of age he got a member of Congress to work for him. You dont think I can get a place as clerk then in the Patent office in Treasury or Paymasters do you This young man that I wrote to you about was offered a clerkship in The Paymasters department but he could get a larger salery in the Treasury Department What has become of Mr OConnors People are they still in washington if they are give them my love Please send me your Photograph if you will I shall be very much obliged  If this letter gets to you and I receive an ans I will send you my Photograph the next time I write. Please send me Mr & Mrs. OConnor's Photograph if they will let you have them to send one. I am having first rate times here in Byron I have to work pretty hard but I dont care anything about that I am in a Dry Goods store at present there isnt any clerk but one but we expect to have more soon I have those books that you gave me yet I am a going to keep them until I see you again. There has been about a Dozen customers in since I commenced writing and I dont only barely get to writing and I have to get up so you must excuse this and I will try and do better next time. Yours Truly   
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00832.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jun 3, 1864",0.219774241806,"  Washington |  June 3 1864  Dearest mother Your letter came yesterday   I have not heard the least thing from the 51st since   no doubt they are down there with the Army near Richmond   I have not written to George lately   I think the news from the Army is very good   Mother, you know of course that it is now very near Richmond indeed, from five to ten miles1    Mother, if this campaign was not in progress I should not stop here, as it is now beginning to tell a little upon me,2 so many bad wounds, many putrified, & all kinds of dreadful ones, I have been rather too much with   but as it is I shall certainly remain here while the thing remains undecided   it is impossible for me to abstain from going to see & minister to certain cases, & that draws me into others, & so on   I have just left Oscar Cunningham,3 the Ohio boy   he is in a dying condition   there is no hope for him   it would draw tears from the hardest heart to look at him   he is all wasted away to a skeleton, & looks like some one fifty years old   you remember I told you a year ago, when he was first brought in, I thought him the noblest specimen of a young western man I had seen, a real giant in size, & always with a smile on his face   O what a change, he has long been very irritable, to every one but me, & his frame is all wasted away   the young Massachusetts 1st artillery boy, Cutter, I wrote about is dead   he is the one that was brought in a week ago last Sunday, badly wounded in breast   the deaths in the principal hospital I visit, Armory Square, average one an hour   I saw Capt Baldwin4 of the 14th this morning, he has lost his left arm   is going home soon    Mr Kalbfleisch5 & Anson Herrick,6 (M C from New York) came in one of the wards where I was sitting writing a letter this morning, in the midst of the wounded   Kalbfleisch was so much affected by the sight that he burst into tears   O I must tell you I gave the boys in Carver hospital a great treat of ice cream a couple of days ago, went round myself through about 15 large wards, (I bought some ten gallons, very nice)   you would have cried & been amused too, many of the men had to be fed, several of them I saw cannot probably live, yet they quite enjoyed it, I gave everybody some   quite a number western country boys had never tasted ice cream before   they relish such things, oranges, lemons, &c   Mother, I feel a little blue this morning, as two young men I knew very well have just died, one died last night, & the other about half an hour before I went to the hospital, I did not anticipate the death of either of them, each was a very, very sad case, so young   well, mother, I see I have written you another gloomy sort of letter   I do not feel as first rate as usual    Walt    You don't know how I want to come home & see you all, you, dear Mother, & Jeff & Mat & all   I believe I am homesick, something new for me   then I have seen all the horrors of soldier's life & not been kept up by its excitement   it is awful to see so much, & not be able to relieve it    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00833.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jun 7, 1864",0.220318237454,"  Washington |  June 7 1864  Dearest mother, I cannot write you any thing about the 51st, as I have not heard a word   I felt much disturbed yesterday afternoon, as Major Hapgood came up from the Paymaster General's office, & said that news had arrived that Burnside was killed, & that the 9th Corps had had a terrible slaughter   he said it was believed at the Paymaster general's office   Well I went out to see what reliance there was on it   the rumor soon spread over town, & was believed by many   but as near as I can make it out, it proves to be one of those unaccountable stories that get started these times   Saturday night we heard that Grant was routed completely &c &c   so that's the way the stories fly   I suppose you have the same big lies there in Brooklyn   Well the truth is sad enough, without adding any thing to it   but Grant is not destroyed yet, but I think is going into Richmond yet, but the cost is terrible    Mother, I have not felt well at all the last week   I had spells of deathly faintness, and bad trouble in my head too, & sore throat, (quite a little budget, ain't they?)   My head was the worst, though I don't know, the faint weak spells were not very pleasant   but I feel so much better this forenoon I believe it has passed over   There is a very horrible collection in Armory Building, (in Armory Square hosp.) about 200 of the worst cases you ever see, & I had been probably too much with them   it is enough to melt the heart of a stone   over one third of them are amputation cases    Well, mother, poor Oscar Cunningham is gone at last   he is the 82d Ohio boy, (wounded May 3d '63)   I have written so much of him I suppose you feel as if you almost knew him   I was with him Saturday forenoon & also evening   he was more composed than usual, could not articulate very well   he died about 2 o'clock Sunday morning   very easy they told me, I was not there   It was a blessed relief, his life has been misery for months   the cause of death at last was the system absorbing the pus, the bad matter, instead of discharging it from wound   I believe I told you in last letter I was quite blue from the deaths of several of the poor young men I knew well, especially two I had strong hopes of their getting up   things are going pretty badly with the wounded   They are crowded here in Washington in immense numbers, & all those that come up from the Wilderness, & that region, arrived here so neglected, & in such plight, it was awful   (those that were at Fredericksburgh & also from Belle Plaine)   The papers are full of puffs, &c. but the truth is, the largest proportion of worst cases got little or no attention   we receive them here with their wounds full of worms   some all swelled & inflamed, many of the amputations have to be done over again   one new feature is that many of the poor afflicted young men are crazy, every ward has some in it that are wandering   they have suffered too much, & it is perhaps a privilege that they are out of their senses   Mother, it is most too much for a fellow, & I sometimes wish I was out of it   but I suppose it is because I have not felt first rate myself    I am going to write to George to-day, as I see there is a daily mail to White House   O I must tell you that we get the wounded from our present field near Richmond much better than we did from the Wilderness & Fredericksburgh   We get them now from White House, they are put on boats there, & come all the way here, about 160 or 70 miles   White House is only twelve or fifteen miles from the field, & is our present depot & base of supplies   It is very pleasant here to-day, a little cooler than it has been   a good rain shower last evening   the western reg'ts continue to pour in here, the 100 days men, may go down to front, to guard posts, trains, &c    Well, Mother, how do things go on with you all   it seems to me if I could only be home two or three days, & have some good teas with you & Mat, & set in the old basement a while, & have a good time & talk with Jeff, & see the little girls, &c   I should be willing to keep on afterward among these sad scenes for the rest of the summer   but I shall remain here until this Richmond campaign is settled, any how, unless I get sick, & I don't anticipate that   Mother dear, I hope you are well & in fair spirits   you must try to   have you heard from sister Han? Walt You know I am living at 502 Pennsylvania av. (near 3d st)   it is not a very good place, I don't like it so well as I did cooking my own grub   & the air is not good   Jeff, you must write    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00371.html," Letter from Reuben Farwell to Walt Whitman ,","Jun 8, 1864",0.220454236366," Dear Friend I once promised to write you & as often as convient So far I have fullfulled my part. Since my joineing My Regiment It has been nothing but marching & fighting the Johnnys. I can say that we are enough for them if not too much There has not been a fight but what they have been worsted Our Cavalry forces have started on an other raid of 10 days rations I left the Regiment last Monday. The reason of my leaveing was because I could not see to ride or walk. I was poisioned how or in what manner I can not tell. I will write to you as often as possible Even if it is pencil marks I hope that this may find you enjoying good health    Give my respects to the inmates of Ward. A, of Armory Square Hospital & tell Thom. Woodwurth that I would be very glad to hear from him. I will close by hopeing to see you before long   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00834.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jun 10, 1864",0.22072623419,"  Washington |  June 10 1864  Dearest mother I got your letter dated last Wednesday   I do not always depend on Swinton's1 accounts   I think he is apt to make things full as bad as they are, if not worse    Mother, I was so glad to get a letter from Jeff this morning enclosing one from George dated June 1st   it was so good to see his handwriting once more   I have not heard any thing of the reg't   there are all sorts of rumors here, among others that Burnside does not give satisfaction to Grant & Meade, & that it is expected some one else will be placed in command of 9th Corps   Another rumor, more likely, is that our base of the army is to be changed to Harrison's Landing on James river instead of White House on Pamunky    Mother, I have not felt well again the last two days as I was Tuesday, but I feel a good deal better this morning, I go around, but most of the time feel very little like it   the doctor tells me I have continued too long in the hospitals, especially in a bad place, armory building, where the worst wounds were, & have absorbed too much of the virus in my system   but I know it is nothing but what a little relief & sustenance of right sort, will set right    I am writing this in Major Hapgood's office   he is very busy paying off some men whose time is out, they are going home to New York   I wrote to George yesterday   we are having very pleasant weather here just now   Mother, you didn't mention whether Mary had come, so I suppose she has not, I should like to see her & Ansel too2    The wounded still come here in large numbers   day & night trains of ambulances   tell Jeff the $10 from Mr Lane for the soldiers came safe   I shall write to Jeff right away   I send my love to Mat & all   Mother, you must try to keep good heart    Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00164.html," Letter from Helen S. Cunningham to Walt Whitman ,","Jun 11, 1864",0.220862233102," Mr Whitman It is with an aching heart that I address you this morning. I recd yours of the 2nd [This letter is currently lost] telling us of Oscars2 condition last Wednesday. I was going to start right of to see him I would have come long ago but he thought not, so did you. this time I intended to go whether anyone thought best or not but the same eve Liut Perry came bringing us the sad news of his death but did not tell us any of the particulars Mr Whitman will you be so kind as to tell us all the particulars concerning Oscar was he expecting death to come so soon or did he leave any messages for us. the least thing from him will be interesting to me we were not expecting to hear of his death as all the news we got were favorable of late nor can we realise it yet we will try and submit to Gods will and feell that he does all things well  we hope our loss is for his gain. I feel that you was Oscars friend and will be ours and again we thank you and will ever feel grateful to you for the kindness you have shown. I hope to hear from you soon yours with respect   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00835.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jun 14, 1864",0.221270229838,"  Washington |  June 14 1864  Dearest mother I am not feeling very well these days   the doctors have told me not to come inside the hospitals for the present   I send there by a friend every day, I send things & aid to some cases I know, & hear from there also, but I do not go myself at present   it is probable that the hospital poison has affected my system, & I find it worse than I calculated   I have spells of faintness & very bad feeling in my head, fullness & pain   & besides sore throat   my boarding place, 502 Pennsylvania av, is a miserable place, very bad air   But I shall feel better soon, I know   the doctors say it will pass over   they have long told me I was going in too strong   some days I think it has all gone & I feel well again, but in a few hours I have a spell again    Mother, I have not heard any thing of the 51st   I sent George's letter to Han   I have written to George since   I shall write again to him in a day or two   if Mary comes home tell her I sent her my love   if I dont feel better before the end of this week or beginning of next, I may come home for a week or fortnight for a change   the rumor is very strong here that Grant is over the James river on south side   but it is not in the papers   we are having quite cool weather here   Mother, I want to see you & Jeff so much   I have been working a little at copying, but have stopt it lately    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00372.html," Letter from Reuben Farwell to Walt Whitman ,","Jun 16, 1864",0.221542227662,   Dear Comrad I arrived in Town this forenoon and I have been trying to find your residence  But unseccessfull I came to Armory Suqare Hospital to learn whither you had gone The Boys do not know your whereabouts. S So I concluded to find out by dropping a few lines to you I hope my Dear Uncle that nothing has befallen you Either sickness or discontentment I would like to see you before I returne to The Front which will be on the 18th of this month. To morrow night I will remain here  If you have any desire or wish to see me Call or write me your address  I just come from the front & Expect to return soon   receive this from one who remembers you still  Yours Affectionately  
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00836.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jun 17, 1864",0.221678226574,"  Washington |  June 17 1864  Dearest Mother I got your letter this morning   this place & the hospitals seem to have got the better of me   I do not feel so badly this forenoon   but I have bad nights & bad days too, some of the spells are pretty bad   still I am up some & around every day   the doctors have told me for a fortnight I must leave, that I need an entire change of air, &c    I think I shall come home for a short time, & pretty soon   (I will try it two or three days yet, though, & if I find my illness goes over, I will stay here yet awhile   all I think about is to be here if any thing should happen to George)    We dont hear any thing more of the Army than you do there in the papers    Walt Mother, if I should come I will write a day or so before    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00356.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jun 18, 1864",0.221814225486,"  About Two miles fromPetersburg Va.    June 18th/64 Dear Mother. I got a letter from Walt yesterday (dated June 11th) enclosing one from you of June 8th and you dont know how glad I was to hear that you are all well. It has been some time Mother, since I have had a chance to write to you, and I have felt quite bad for fear that you would frett and worry about not hearing from me, and I have often thought, I would give almost anything to let you know that I was all right. The last time I wrote you, I believe we were somewhere near Coal Harbor2 (although I dont think I knew the name of the place when I wrote) and since then we have been kept pretty buissy building rifle pitts, cutting roads and throwing up earthworks &c (I believe I told you in my last letter that our Regt had been detached from the Brigade and was doing duty as an Engineer Regt)3  we like the change first rate as we are not expected to take much part in the fighting, but as our folks drive the enemy, or take a new position we go to work and fortify it. The most of our work has to be done at night, and we often surprise the enemy in the morning, with works that we have made during the night within 4 or 500 yards of their line of battle. About half of our Regt. are detailed as Head Quarter Guard for Genl Burnside4 and are on duty at the Generals quarters, so you see Mother we are having pretty good times, and I rather think the old 51st have struck a streak of luck at last. Sometimes we are rather short of grub, and sometimes pretty well played out with hard work, but as long as we are gaining ground, I dont grumble at hard work or short rations. We had quite a lively little time a few days before we left Coal Harbor. Capt Sims and myself (I have been acting Major for the last Month)5 took the Regt out on the skirmish line one afternoon to build rifle pitts, and as we were in plain sight of the rebel skirmishers we were considerably puzzled how to work without exposing our men to much, for as soon as the men began to dig the rebs commenced to blaze away at them, and we were likely to loose quite a number of men, so I proposed a new plan  I got a lot of empty cracker boxes and stationed the men about 10 ft apart, gave each man a box, and made him crawl out on the line  lay down behind the box  fill it with earth, and then I took each one annother box so that in a very few minutes the men had first rate protection and could work without much danger, and everything was going on finely when just as I had sett down to take a cup of Coffe, I heard the rebs give a yell as they charged down our front. Our boys dropped their spades and seized their rifles that were stacked near at hand and in a few minutes we cleared our front entirely of the enemy, but a regt. that was working on our right gave way and allowed the rebs to come round our right flank, and as I saw there was no way for us to prevent the enemy getting around in the rear of us and takeing us all prisoners I gave the order to fall back to the next line of breastworks where our troops lay in line of battle,  I did not much like the idea of being drove off and before I left the rebs were some 100 feet in the rear of our line, but I knew a way down through a ravine, that I could get out all right. We lost one man killed  4 or 5 wounded and some 6 or 7 taken prisoners, and I hear the Regt. gets considerable credit at Head Quarters for the way it behaved. We arrived here day before yesterday and found the fight going on and it has been kept up ever since (sometimes very sharp and then again it dies away) ever since we arrived here. So far the fighting along the front of our Corps has been altogather in our favor and we have been steadily driving the rebs ever since we came here, and now as I write there is a very savage fight going on in our front, and I think by the fireing that our boys are pushing the enemy back and unless the rebs can make a firmer stand than they have made here yet  it will not be long before the long covetted City of Petersburg will be in our possession  I notice by the papers that our Corps is very little spoken of, but for all that they have done some splendid fighting, although we seem to be, rather outsiders here in the Army of the Potomac,6 and Genl Burnside is one of these kind of men that does the work they give him to doo and finds no fault and I am sure I dont object to the noble Potomac Army's getting their full share of praise. Our Corps met with quite a serious loss yesterday in the death of the Cheif Engineer of our Corps Major Morton.7 Our Division (the 2nd) had just carried a very formidable line of rebel works and Major Morton had just gone up on the line to lay out some work for our Regt. to do as soon it got dark, when he was hitt in the side with a rifle ball and died almost instantly. He was a good friend to our Regt and is very much regrettted by the whole Corps. Last night I took the Regt up on the line and worked all night. We were in a large open plain,  our Batteries were just behind us and the rebel Batteries were just in front of us, and Three or four times during the night the Batteries opened on each other and kept up a pretty sharp fire for 10 or 15 minutes and then they would quiet down again. It was splendid where we was, both parties fired over our heads, but so high that we were in no danger, and we could watch the shells bursting in front and rear of us, and down to the right and left,  we could plainly see both lines of skirmishers blazing away at each other, and could eaisily tell by the direction of the flame as it left the rifles which was our line and which the rebs. Well Mother I hope you wont keep yourself in a frett this hot weather but just keep as cool as possible. I am very anxious to see you all, but if I cannot see you the next best thing is to hear from you often and whenever you hear from Hannah, dont fail to send me the letter. Good bye Mother for the present  Much love to all G. W. Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00188.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to William D. O'Connor ,","Jun 25, 1864",0.22276621787,"  Brooklyn |  June 25 1864  Dear friend I write just a line to let you know I got home all safe   I do not feel very well yet, but expect to, or begin to, pretty soon   I send my love to you & Nelly & to Charles Eldridge2-- Walt Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00850.html," Letter from John Burroughs to Walt Whitman ,","Jun 28, 1864",0.223174214606,"  Olive N.Y. June 28th  [1864]  Dear Walt It was my purpose to write to you while home, but ill health prevented me from fulfilling half my plans.  I am much better now but by no means well.  The Comptroller has given me another week of grace in which time I hope to get well.  I have just recd a letter from Benton saying I must come and see him and bring you with me.2  This is why I am writing.  Can you not come.  If you are in N.Y. surely you can.  Benton would be delighted; so should I.  I shall leave go to Benton next Saturday and stay till Wednesday.  If you could not come till Monday or Tuesday even, do so.  From N.Y. you will take the Harlem R.R. to Amenia, Dutches Co.  Benton lives about a mile from there and keeps the Leedsville P.O.  If you should write direct to Leedsville N.Y.  With much love  I am yours truly John Burroughs  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/uva.00346.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Charles W. Eldridge ,","Jun 28, 1864",0.223174214606,"  Brooklyn |  Tuesday afternoon June 28 | '64  Dear comrade I have been improving for the last two days, & think I shall be up & around soon, as well as ever   I have had the services of a good physician, who has allowed me to get well quite naturally   he decided that the only thing needing serious watching was the throat, & had prepared if the disease there went beyond a certain point to call in a skilful New York doctor, for consultation, but fortunately we were saved the trouble   I felt a good deal like myself the most of yesterday, & the same to-day   so I don't think I am hurrahing before I am out of the woods. We have a letter from my brother George, down to 18th inst. he was all safe.2 My mother & folks are all well    I rece'd the letter enveloped to me 25th   I sent a line to Wm O'Connor, 25th, which I suppose he rec'd   has Nelly gone yet? I shall write to her next time   remember me to Ashton3 with friendship   also to Arnold Johnson4 with sincere thanks & tell him I am getting well   & give my best respects & thanks to Major Hapgood. Walt Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/med.00323.html," Letter from William D. O'Connor to Walt Whitman ,","Jul 2, 1864",0.223718210254,"  Washington, D.C., July 2, 1864.  Dear Walt: Your note of June 25th did not reach me till the 28th. Since then another word has come from you to Charles Eldridge. I was very glad to hear from you and am quite vexed with myself that I did not answer the note at once, as I meant to do. Procrastination seems to possess me of late years. I think it must be in the Washington air, together with other vices. I am very much encouraged at the prospects of your recovery. I never can say how anxious I was about you when you were here. It was so lucky that you left just when you did, for the three or four days succeeding your departure were fearful for dead heat and I don't know how you could have borne them. Many thoughts of you have come to me since you went away, and sometimes it has been lonely and a little like death. Particularly at evening when you used to come in. But, on the whole, every feeling submerges in gratefulness and thankfulness that you were away from this great sultriness and where you can have the rest and help it was not our fortune to be able to give you here. I do not attempt to write you a letter this time, but only a note or noteling by way of proof that I exist and do not forget you. Everything here is much as it was. Nelly is not yet gone, but probably goes next week. She will write to you. I wonder what the future for us is to be. Shall we triumph over obscurities and obstacles and emerge to start the Pathfinder, or whatever the name of it is to be? I wonder if it is so written on the iron leaf. Shall you live to publish many great poems amidst recognition and tumults of applause? Shall I live to write my Shakespeare book and a score of gorgeous romances? Or shall we never meet, never work together, never start any Pathfinder, never do anything but fade out into death, frustrated, lost in oblivion?      So says Master Robert Browning and so it may be. At all events I hope you will get well very soon and make preparations for eternity by publishing your Drum-Taps. I hardly believe you will come back here. But I hope you will. That is, when the weather gets decent. Do go to the seashore if you can. I wish I could. O the rough green of the illumined surges! O the briny odor! Thalatta! Thalatta! It revives me even in this sweltering air just to think of it. I will now stop writing and send this miserable and wilted letter-a better than which I will write next time. Rely on me, Walt, for anything you want done here, or anything at all in my power.  With much love, your faithful W. D. O'Connor.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00357.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jul 2, 1864",0.223718210254,"  Near Petersburg Va   July 2d 1864 Dear Mother. You see Mother I have to date my letters yet from near Petersburg instead of from Richmond2 We are laying here yet in front of the Rebel lines, our Regt about a quarter of a mile from the enemy's works, but our line of battle in front of us is not more than 200 yards from that of the enemy,  both parties are working away at night, strengthening their lines and as they are so close togather, and watch each other so closely the least unusual noise at night will frequently start the fire along the whole line and almost every night we have a general row lasting half an hour or so. These night affairs are splendid, when a fellow can lay back in the rear and look at them. They are generaly commenced by the pickets, and soon the stragling picket fireing changes to regular volleys, then the Batteries generaly open pretty savage, and the Mortars join in and altogather they manage to kick up a terrible noise but as both parties are behind earthworks the execution done is very slight compared with the noise made. I suppose Mother, you all want to hear something about the prospects of our soon takeing Petersburg, but I cant tell you anything more than you can see in the newspapers. All that I know is that we are laying here waiting for Genl Grant to say what he wants us to do next, and everyone is satisfied to wait untill he gives the word, and then whether it be, to take the City by Assault, or whatever the order may be, I think all hands will obey it just as readily and cheerfully as if the campaign was just commencing,  The ammount of it is Mother we all believe in Grant, and as far as I can hear the opinion is universal in the army, that before this campaign is over Petersburg and Richmond will be in our posession. Our lines are in some places within easy Artillery Range of the City, and from where we lay we can plainly see the spires of the Churches in the City. I received a letter from Walt a few days ago dated June 25th  I am very sorry to hear Walt is sick but I am glad he is home and I hope by this time he is all right again.3 I hold my own first rate and feel about as well as ever I did. Walt reports everything going on at home the same as usual, and he says Mother looks as well as he ever see her. Mattie and the babies he says are flourishing first rate, and I am very glad to hear you all are getting along so well. I have been in command of the Regt for the last two weeks and have been kept pretty buisy trying to get things straigtened out, but this morning one of our seniour Captains arrived from Furlough and I hope that he will relieve me from the command of the Regt. I have a horse but I dont get much chance to ride as we are kept pretty close. The weather here is verry hot indeed but I dont believe it is much warmer here than in Brooklyn, and the nights are quite cool and pleasant & if we could have a shower occasionaly to keep the dust down it would be much pleasanter. Walt says you have not heard from Hannah in some time. I am verry much in hopes that she is getting strong again. One of Walts aquaintances Capt McKibben4 was severely wounded here a few days ago,  he was on Gen Potters5 Staff, and has now gone home to New York. Well Mother I believe I have nothing more to say at present, so good bye for a short time. Give my love to all. George W. Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00943.html," Letter from Ellen M. O'Connor to Walt Whitman ,","Jul 5, 1864",0.22412620699,"  July 5th 1864 Washington. D.C.  Dear Walt, It will be two weeks to-morrow since you left us, and I have missed you terribly every minute of the time. I think I never in my life felt so wholly blue and unhappy about any one's going away as I did and have since, about your going. I began to be really superstitious I felt so badly. I did not think that you were going to die, but I could not possibly overcome the feeling that our dear and pleasant circle was broken, and it seemed to me that we four should not be together any more as we have been. But now since you are so much better, I hope you will come back to Washington in the autumn to stay all winter, and I hope we shall spend a part of every day together, as we have so many days. Ah! Walt, I don't believe other people need you as much as we do. I am sure they don't need you as much as I do. William says it seems so desolate since you left,   and even yet in the evening when I hear a car coming, I find myself watching for you, and listening for you. One reason that I have not written to you before is that I have been so unhappy I thought my letter would only make you so. I can't possibly tell you what a gap you have left, and how all seems gone since you left. William got your note, and answered it but he directed it to Brooklyn only, so it may not be carried to your house, & you may have to look after it. Charlie got your letter to him, & answered it the same day.2 He went off last Friday to pay the Staff Officers down at the front in the 5th Corps, Warren's & he said he wished you were here to go with them, as it would give you a fine chance to see your brother George. He expected to get back yesterday, but we have not seen him yet. Poor Ashton is sick in bed with rheumatism, a fearful attack of it, & he is hourly expecting his brother to be sent-up, who has been badly wounded in the arm & neck, but I have promised him that if his brother arrives before I leave, I will go & see him.3 The Johnsons are all well, & still have good accounts of John.4 Our affairs remain as they did when you left, & that is one cause of my delay. I know that William prefers & I do, too, that this trouble concerning the house & hall be settled before I leave, but I think I must go this week at any rate. Mr. Fessenden will probably be our Sec. of the Treasury, he has not yet accepted we hear. Mr. Irvinton made us a visit on Sunday. He is now located here, as you may know. He looked sick, & says he is. He has had chills & fever, caught in the James River. I can't bear to write you, dear Walt, when I have so much to say to you, & so much to ask. You must tell me when you write, about the baby & the folk at home. Did the little California come up to the early promise of her babyhood? & how is your mother? Tell me when you write. In the hurry & suddenness of your leaving I forgot to give you Mrs. Beach's notes, shall I trust them to the mail or keep them for you till you come back?5 I asked Miss. Howard about Jesse Mullory, & she says he was sent to New York before you left Washington, but she says he was very deaf before he left & she thought him in a very bad way.6 She has been obliged to give up going for a week past but will begin again next week. & if you want to know about any of your boys, or about Armory hospital generally, she would be very glad to tell you. Send her a note any time, & direct it to William & he will take it to her office. The fourth was rather a dull day to me, the only satisfaction I had was in helping Mr. Wood pack his trunk, Jeannie & I spent two hours with him in the morning, helping him, as he was to leave to-day.7 He is still very poorly I think, but he has a vacation of two months, so I hope he will come back well. I got my pictures last week, & they are rather bad, the front face, or rather three quarter face, is hideous, William forbids my giving any of them away. The side face is   well what do you say of it? I think it is very sharp, & I know I should not like any body that looked like it, do you? What news from your brother George? I think our army affairs are looking rather dismal, don't you? And when gold went up so last week, I thought we were going to have a crash in the finance at once, & now what a terrible rise there is in prices, sugar 38 cents a pound here. Is it so bad with you? What about your book? Have you been able yet to give a thought even?	 And just how are you? Tell me won't you? I hope you are very, very much better. That Wednesday evening after you left I felt so badly at your leaving so suddenly. For it was sudden at last,   & I wished I had persuaded you to stay just one day longer, but the very next day was intensely hot, & so for four days, & then I was glad for your sake that you were safe home. Now it is cool, and I am one of the few who feel best the hottest days. See what a long letter I have written you. Jeannie says tell Mr. Walt that I hope he will come home soon, & see papa, & tell him I send my love to him & a kiss. Louisa asks for you so does Mrs. Howells, & many more, Dr. & Mrs. Wood.8  Good bye Walt, with much love - Nelly.  P.S. Send to me here till I write you again, & if I know what day I am to leave I shall let you know, in the hope of seeing you as I pass through New York.  Nelly.   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00373.html," Letter from James S. Stilwell to Walt Whitman ,","Jul 5, 1864",0.22412620699,"   Dear Friend I take the present time to write a few lines to you to let you know how I am I am very well at presant my wound is a doing very well now but it is worse than it was when I left armory Square it commence to get worse About the tenth of June it was so fore About three weeks that I didnot go out of the ward but it is A gitting better again now I am now at chestnuthill Hospital philadelphia this hospital is About ten miles from the city of Philadelphia this is A very pleasant place here there is A grove on one side of the hospital and A bowling in the grove and A half A dozen Swings but I dont like it as well here as I did their there is forty seven(47) wards to this hospital each wards has 60 beds in some of the new york boys has been transferred to new york from here but I didnt of happen to be one of them thomas Flood is here he is ward master of this ward he sends his best wishes to you I had a letter from home last friday they was all well then and mother Sends her best respect to you  I have not been home yet but I expect to go home in About two weeks on A furlough you musnt think hard of me because I havent write to you before, pleas write Soon So no more at presant from your affectionate Friend direct your letter to Mower Hospital Chestnut Hill Ward (20)   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00189.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to William D. O'Connor ,","Jul 5, 1864",0.22412620699,"  Brooklyn |  Tuesday even'g July 5 1864  My dear friend I have had the misfortune to fall back a little since I wrote to you   I have had three or four pretty bad days & nights   but I am feeling decidedly brighter this afternoon, & have no doubt I shall be myself again before long. The trouble has been as before, bad spells of weakness with heavy aching head   I think the throat is no worse, but it is not well yet    William, I rec'd your letter to-day, also one from Charles Eldridge, with one in envelope   as to the future, & as to our meeting again, I have no doubt we shall meet again & have good times2   if Nelly has not gone when this reaches you, I wish her to consider it just the same as if written to her   I do not write much, nor do any thing hardly, but keep as quiet as possible   my physician thinks that time, with the change of locality, & my own latent recuperative power, will make me well, but says my system is probably saturated with the virus of the hospitals &c which eludes ordinary treatment   &c &c &c    I have nothing new or interesting to write you. I intend to move heaven & earth to publish my ""Drum-Taps"" as soon as I am able to go around. So Eldridge is down at Petersburgh3   if I were there at Washington & well I should want no better fun than accompanying them   When you see Count4 tell him I sent him my love   also Ashton   I will write should there be any change in my condition    Good bye for present, my dear friend, & God bless you5    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00165.html," Letter from Lewis K. Brown to Walt Whitman ,","Jul 6, 1864",0.224262205902,"   Dear Walter, I take my pen in hand as a final resort to find out where you are. as it appears to me it has bin six months since I seen you, I would like very much to see you & if I knew where you wer I would come & see you for I can never forget your love and friendship to me while I was in the Armory Square Hosp. It would be ungreatful in me to forget you & all you[r] many kindnesses to me. I have not herd from you for some time the last time I herd from you Jo Harris was telling me that you [weren't] well & that you wer on the Avinue & had a room there. I am still here & will stay untill August  I get out now most every day untill six oclock but I never see you I have got my Artificial leg but cant walk very well on it but I think that practice will make me more perfect. I would like very much to see you come in here & spend the evening as you usd to do at the old Armory but alas I never see your [old] familliar in the threshold of my old tent. The boys feels sadly at a loss not to have some one to come in and set awhile with them for there is no one here to do so, as you usd to at Armory Square. There is a great many wounded in the Hospital here & in this ward there is three very bad cases one of the Gangereene & two of the Erysipelas they wer removed from one of the other wards. I am not going to write much to you but will come & see you as soon as I find out where you are at.   No more at preasant, but remain you[r] loving Solder,  L.K.Brown  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/yal.00094.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Charles W. Eldridge ,","Jul 9, 1864",0.224670202638,"  Brooklyn |  July 9 1864  My dear friend I rec'd the letters this afternoon, two in the envelope with a note from you. I wrote to William some five days ago   has he not rec'd it? I had grown worse, quite a good deal, & I was about making up my mind that I would have to stand a good seige   but yesterday the current changed, & I felt better all day, & in the afternoon went out riding with my brother, the first time I have been out of the house since I got home   & to-day I remain feeling better. The doctor to-day tells me my throat is markedly better   In my letter to William I told him I had rec'd his   I have also rec'd one from Nelly   it was very welcome, & I shall try to answer it soon   When you write tell me the impressions you got in the army, & the probabilities as far as you can make them out   As to me, I still believe in Grant, & that we shall get Richmond   we have heard from my brother to July 21   tell me about Ashton2   in a day or two as I get strength I shall probably go down the island    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00190.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Lewis K. Brown ,","Jul 11, 1864",0.224942200462,"  Brooklyn |  July 11 1864  Dear comrade I have rec'd your letter of the 6th1 as it has been sent on to me by Major Hapgood. My dear comrade, I have been very sick, and have been brought on home nearly three weeks ago, after being sick some ten days in Washington   The doctors say my sickness is from having too deeply imbibed poison into my system from the hospitals   I had spells of deathly faintness, & the disease also attacked my head & throat pretty seriously    The doctors forbid me going any more into the hospitals   I did not think much of it, till I got pretty weak, & then they directed me to leave & go north for change of air as soon as I had strength   But I am making too long a story of it   I thought only to write you a line   My dear comrade, I am now over the worst of it & have been getting better the last three days   my brother took me out in a carriage for a short ride yesterday which is the first I have been out of the house since I have been home   the doctor tells me to-day I shall soon be around which will be very acceptable   This is the first sickness I have ever had & I find upon trial such things as faintness, headache & trembling & tossing all night, & all day too, are not proper companions for a good union man like myself    Lewy, I dont know any news to send you   the acc'ts here to-night are that the railroad & telegraph between Baltimore & Washington are cut, & also between Philadelphia by the rebel invasion2    My dear boy, you say you would like to see me   well I would give any thing to see your face again too   I think of you often   tell Jo Harris & Bartlett3 I have not forgotten them    And now good bye, Lewy, & accept my heartfelt & true love, my dearest comrade   & I will try to write again before a great while & tell you how I am getting along, & which way I expect to move, &c. And I hope you will do the same to me    So good bye again, Lew, & God bless you, dear son, now & through life    Walt Whitman    Portland av near Myrtle | Brooklyn | New York "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00229.html," Letter from Aaron Smith to Walt Whitman ,","Jul 13, 1864",0.225214198286,"  Carver U.S. HospitalWashington D.C. July 13th 1864  Mr. Walt WhitmanDear Friend I have once more returned to this place and am improving in health. I should like very much to see you. I am very anxious to hear something of the whereabouts of my Capt I have written several times and as yet have recd no answer. Hoping to see, or hear from you, soon. I remain as ever,  Yours with respect Aaron Smith  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00166.html," Letter from Elijah Douglass Fox to Walt Whitman ,","Jul 14, 1864",0.225350197198,"   Dear Comrade I received your kind letter, and it will be impossible for me to tell how glad I was to hear from you again though very sorry to hear that you had been sick. Oh! I should like to have been with you so I could have nursed you back to health & strength, but if you were with your mother no doubt you were taken care of better than I could have done for you but I would liked to have been with you anyway I could have read to you and talked with you if nothing more  I am afraid I shall never be able to recompense you for your kind care and the trouble I made you while I was sick in the hospital unless you are already paid by knowing you have helped the sick and suffering soldiers many of them will never cease to remember you and to ask God's blessing to rest upon you while you and they live  there is no one such as you at least I have often thought of you and wondered where you were if you were still visiting Armory Square Hospt  I believe I wrote to you that you had two Children instead of one, you know I used to call you Father or ""Pa,"" and I still think of you as such for I am sure no Father could have cared for their own child, better than you did me, if you could see your other child I think you would like her better than you did me for I do. I have also been very sick since you heard from me, for two weeks I knew nothing, was perfectly insane. I was taken with some kind of spasm and for two or three days many said I could not live but I had a good Doctor and have almost regained my health but think I shall never be able to do hard work again  Mary sends her love to you she often talks about you  she sends her thanks to you for your kindness to me and hopes you may soon regain your health, but I must stop for this time  write soon and often  the reason I did not write was that I wrote once and received no answer  I thought you had left there but now you shall hear from me often  no more  I remain your Son & Comrade   E. D. Fox   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00167.html," Letter from Lewis K. Brown to Walt Whitman ,","Jul 18, 1864",0.225894192846,"   My dear Friend Your kind letter came to hand yesterday. I was very much supprised to hear that you wer in Brooklin  I was also very sory to hear of your illness & to think that it was brought on by your unselfish kindness to the Soldiers  There is a many a soldier now that never thinks of you but with emotions of the greatest gratitude & I know that the soldiers that you have bin so kind to have a great big warm place in their heart for you. I never think of you but it makes my heart glad to think that I have bin permited to know one so good. I hope you will soon be enjoying good health again for it is one of God's greatest blessings  I should like very much to see you back here but I suppose you must stay whear it suits your health best but I will still write to you for I can never forget your great kindness to me. I have got my leg but I think that I will never be able to walk much on it as my stump is so short but if I cant I can go on my crutches for they appear to be a part of myself for I have bin on them so long  I have not seen Jo Harris2 or Bartlett3 for over a weak but I believe they are both well  they went to Baltimore on a spree on the 4 of July had had what they call a regular gay time, they wer prety hard looking after they got back, Now a word for myself. I have not succeeded in getting a position in any of the Depts yet thoug my M.C. tried quite hard Gov Hicks tried also but there is so many aplicants for such positions that there is not much chance but I will still try for I do not like to give up after so much trouble. I suppose you herd that J. A. Tabor4 was killed. he was killed in the wilderness the second days battle. I seen some men out of his company & they say that he fell dead when he was shot. The Hospitals are not so full now as they have bin transferring the men north as fast as they get able all the men in the Hospitals that are fit for duty are sent off to their regiments The 4 of July pased of[f] here as usual there was a national salute fired from the surrounding forts & there was any amount of sky rockets. they comenced celebrating the 4th on Sunday evening after dark & they kept it up until morning I could not sleep a partical all night there being so much noise Dear Walt I expect that I will tire you by writing so much but I must write & tell you about the rebs while they wer here if you get tired you must rest & begin again They first maid their appearence on Sunday night some few miles from the City. On Monday there was great excitement in the City, the citizens armed them selves & went out to hold the rebs, in check, the soldiers that wer in the Hospitals wer formed into companys, & marched out to the fortifications & put in the Rifle pits, & there was some little skirmishing within about 1000 yards of fort Stephens, & some in front of fo[r]t Slocum. On Monday night the part of the 6th Army Corps came up and went out & part of the 19th Army corps came also; on Tuesday morning the excitement was intence the citizents in the Q.M. Dept & some in the War Dept wer armed and hurried out to the front 3 miles from the City limits. On Tuesday morning soon as I got my breakfast, George McArthur & I went & took the 1st cars & went out as far as they went then we walked out to fort Stephens (& it was a long walk for me on my crutches but I was eagre to see the fight if there was to be any) the guard let us through so we went up to the advance line of battle & seen the picquets firing the Rebs balls whistling over our heads (there was a motly set there for there was citizens women & Niggers all mixed up in a bunch) at last there was one of the rebel bullets struck a man in the head by my side & killed him that started some of the Citiznes to the rear with the women but I staid there untill there was another one of our men killed the ball striking him in the abdomen he expired in a few minuts at the same time the Colonel of the 98th Pa. (Blair) was brought in off of the skirmish line wounded in the head & thy[gh] & arm (I think that he was wounded in all three places)  I then left the fort & went back in the woods in the shade. but prety soon the military ordered all non-combatants to the rear. some of the citizens took a gun & said that they wer determined to stay & see it out. So then I took my passage in a returnd ammunition train & came back to the Hospt on the same day the balance of the 6th & 19th Corps came & the Johnies got up & disstd for the rear  they are now going back to rebeldon with their plunder with our arm[y] is following them. After I came back I took sick the hot sun was to much for me & I have bin sick ever since but am able to be up      No more at preasant but hoping very soon to hear from you, very affectionately yours,  L.K.Brown  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00944.html," Letter from Ellen M. O'Connor to Walt Whitman ,","Jul 18, 1864",0.225894192846,"  Monday Morning. July 18. 1864.  Dear Walt, If no more raids, invasions, incursions, no more new developments in the Ginnaty affair, no more detentions by fire or water occur, my plan is to leave at 6:30 to-morrow evening. I shall get into New York about an hour later than usual, & put my baggage upon the Stonington Boat to leave that Wednesday evening and I shall in on the boat in good time, it leaves at 5 P.M. & I will be there by three P.M. I can say, unless the omnibus that takes me down town should smash up, or something like it. So if you are able I shall be very, very glad to see you & have a good talk with you while I wait.  Don't come unless you are able, but if you are I shall rejoice to see you. Of course I do not ask you to meet me when I get in on Tuesday morning because I know it would be too much for you, & because Mr. Howells2 has said he would, but it would be good to have a whole day with you if you were well. I shall go to some place & get a breakfast, & be under Mr. Howells' supervision. Good bye. Charlie3 got your last letter. He did hope to get away, but can't.  With love - Nelly.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00945.html," Letter from Ellen M. O'Connor to Walt Whitman ,","Jul 24, 1864",0.226710186319,"  Providence. R.I. July 24 1864. Sunday.  Dear Walt, I was at the Boat at 2 Wednesday afternoon and we sailed at 5. I hoped to see you, but feared you would not be able to go over. I was all the more sorry not to see you, and I inferred from it that you were too unwell to come over. Mr. Conway, Martin, F.2 went to the boat with me & remained an hour or so. Mr. Howells3 having business here, made his arrangements to come that evening, so I had company, but I had hoped for a good long talk with you, & hoped that you would be able to go over to the boat. How are you now, dear Walt? I long to hear from you. William & Charlie4 had each had two letters from you, & I not a word, don't you know that I shall be jealous? and now this is my third epistle to you, so I shall claim a word from you when you are able to write. My sister & Dr. Channing5 both ask for you with the greatest interest, & Jeannie6, Mrs. C. says she should have written you at once and asked you there when I first wrote her that you were ill, if she had not been sick herself. Should you write me, direct to me Care of Dr. Wm. F. Channing. Providence. R.I. I am still in pursuit of a place at the sea - shall, & hope to find one, for I need the sea. I want to hear from you, dear Walt, & I hope you are gaining all the time, are you?  With love - Yours, Nelly.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00191.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to William D. O'Connor ,","Jul 24, 1864",0.226710186319,"  Brooklyn |  Sunday afternoon July 24 1864  My dear friend Since I last wrote to you my illness has been gradually alleviated, until now I go about pretty much the same as usual   I keep pretty old-fashioned hours, rise early, dine at 1, & go to bed before 10   My head feels clear & comfortable, & my strength has returned almost, but not quite up to what it was. I rec'd Nelly's letter, I could not get over to New York that afternoon   Nelly, my dear friend, you must excuse me   I wished much to see you, too2   I hope you are having a good time & feeling well physically & in good spirits   & the little one, little Jenny, this line is for you, my dear. I hope you too are well   William, I rec'd the volume of Navy Reports, transactions of iron clads, fights, &c. for '62 & '33   it will probably give me material for some pieces, thumb-nail sketches, for my ""Drum Taps""   I take it you had that in view in sending it to me    I am trying to make arrangements to publish my volume   I shall probably try to bring [it] out myself, stereotype it, & print an edition of 500   I could sell that number by my own exertions in Brooklyn & New York in three weeks. I rec'd Charles Eldridge's last letter   so he is to go down to front again    how I wish I was in Washington to go with him & Major   I should try it as I am, & be glad of the chance   O I almost forgot the big raid   it is already a thing of the past, I find by my own thoughts & memory, but I suppose it would not do to write a letter to Washington so soon & not mention it    We have heard from my brother George up to the 18th inst.4   he was living & well up to that time   At home here all well as usual   Mother's age I think begins to just show   in a few weeks, she will commence her 70th year   still she does most of her light housework   My sister & her children are well   (Nelly, I write these particulars for you)    Well, William, about the war I have to inform you that I remain hopeful & confident yet5   I still think Grant will go into Richmond   My brother describes the spirit of the troops as confident & sanguine under all their trials   I wish you to enclose this in your next letter to Nelly   I wish you to give my remembrance & love to the Howells,6 to Miss Howard7 & to Arnold Johnson8   Write soon & tell me all the news   tell me how is Ashton   Good bye & God bless you, my dear friend    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00358.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jul 26, 1864",0.226982184143,"  In front of Petersburg Va. Wednesday Evening  July 26th/64 Dear Mother. All quiet in front of Petersburg, and everything going on just the same as when I last wrote. We came out from the front line, last night and are now at our camp, in the woods about half a mile from the enemy's works. We go up  in front and stay 48 hours and then come back here and stay the next 48. I received Walts letter of July 14th and am looking every day to hear from you again. Mother I hope you are all well at home,  Walt I hope is all right before now.1 I have never been heartier than I have been this summer,  we live very well here and are a great deal more comfortable than one would think. I wrote you last, about the 13th of this month,  did you get the letter. We are kept pretty buissy, while we are back in Camp, makeing out papers for men who are sent away sick or wounded, but still we dont kill ourselvs with hard work. Well Mother it is getting late and I am getting sleeppy, so good night,  I will write again soon. Much love to all. G. W. Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00851.html," Letter from John Burroughs to Walt Whitman ,","Aug 2, 1864",0.227934176527," Dear Walt, I am disconsolate at your long stay.  What has become of you?  On returning the 7th of July I found you had gone home sick.  You have no business to be sick, so I expect you are well.  I was so unlucky as to be sick all the time I was home   and most of the time since I came back.  I am quite well now, however, and feel like myself.  Benton2 and I looked for you at Leedsville, as I wrote to you to come.  If you have leisure now you would enjoy hugely a visit up there.  I hope you are printing Drum Taps, and that this universal drought does not reach your ""grass.""  But make haste and come back.  The heat is delicious.  I have a constant bath in my own perspiration.  I was out at the front during the siege of Washington and lay in the rifle pits with the soldiers.  I got quite a taste of war and learned the song of those modern minstrels   the minnie bullets   by heart.  A line from you would be prized.  Truly yours John Burroughs  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00359.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Aug 9, 1864",0.228886168911,"  In front of Petersburg Va 10 Oclock Tuesday night  Aug 9th/64 Dear Mother. I have just come in from the front, where we have been on picket for the last 48 hours, and as everything is quiet, and I dont care to turn in just yet, I will do as I promised the last time I wrote, (I see by Walts letter of Aug. 4th that you got mine all right,) and tell you something about our fight here on the 30th of last Month. Well Mother, to begin at the begining, you must know that for 4 or 5 weeks before the great blow up came off, one of the Regts, of our Brigade (the 48th Penn.) had been at work digging a mine, starting about 100 feet in rear of the line that our Regt. occupies when on picket, and running under a rebel fort, just to the left and front of us, and about 175 yeards from where the mine started. This was quite a great undertaking and as I understand, pronounced by the regular Engineers of the Potomac Army as not at all likely to suceed, but the Regt. that had the work in charge are nearly all Coal Miners from Penn. and their Lieut. Col. (Pleasants) was a mining Engineer at home, so they just kept on at their work, and on the 29th of last month, the thing was all charged and ready to touch off. On the Evening of the 29th (our Regt being picket at the time) we were notified to be ready to leave the rifle pitts at moments notice, and somewhere about 4 Oclock on the morning of the 30th we were ordered to leave a small force in the pitts to keep up the usual amount of fireing (so that the enemy wouldent suspect anything) and to fall back, about a quarter of a mile with the rest of the Regt. and wait for orders. After going back as we were ordered, we waited for an hour, and had made up our minds that the thing was a failure (as the fuse had been lighted before we left the pitts and it was expected to take about 25 minutes to burn to the magazines) when we felt the earth tremble under our feet, and immidately a vast column of earth was thrown up in the air very much resembling (in shape) a hugh water spout, and as we hear since burying in its fall several guns and quite a number of Rebs. The Artillerynen all along our line were standing by their guns ready to fire, and the very second the explosion took place the fire from nearly a hundred peices of Artillery opened along our line, and take it all togather I think it was the most exciting sight I ever saw. From what I have since learned, I think the programe was something like this. I think it was intended the instant the Fort was blown up, for the First Division of our Corps (who were formed close up to the front) to charge through the First line of the enemy, and push on to the second, which it was expected during the panic and surprise of the enemy they could easily take and hold. Our Division the 2d was then to charge on the right, and the Third on the left, while the Fourth Division (The Darkies) were to be thrown forward, passing through the First Division, and advancing on to Petersburg, the Fourth Division to be followed and suported by parts of the 5th 10th & 18th corps, who were massed just inside our lines. The plan I think was a good one and as yet, I cant see why, with proper management it couldent have been carried out, but it seems the First Division that should have been moved forward on the instant, did not (for some reason or another) advance for some time after the explosion, and then only as far as the enemys 1st line. About half an hour after the fight commenced our Division was brought up to the front and our Regt and the 2d N. Y. of our Brigade was put in our old rifle pitts, while the rest of the Division was sent on to where the rebel Fort had been. It seems that after the fort was blown up it still formed a sort of breastwork,2 as the earth thrown from the centre made quite a bank around the sides, and in this excavation and in the traverses or pitts surounding the fort our men crowded for protection from the rebel Artillery and the talk is that the men could not be got forward to the second line, but my own opinion is that if some of the men with stars on their shoulders, had led the way the men wouldent have been backward in following them.3 As it was  our Division being sent there only made matters worse, for almost every place that would afford any protection was crowded already, and so much time had been lost, that the rebs had massed a heavy force on their second line, and it would have been pretty hard work to cary it by assault,  Our Division made one or two feeble attempts but were driven back each time. It must have been horrible lying in that crowded place, as there was quite a large number of dead and wounded among them, and several peices of Artillery were throwing shot and shell in there constantly. The day was very hot indeed, and they could not get a drop of water, and many of the men were completely exhausted. In order to get back to our lines, they would have had to cross an open field about one hundred yards wide, which was completely swept by the enemy's Artillery and Infantry, some few of them tried it but the most of those that made the attempt were either killed or wounded. About 9 Oclock the order was given for our Regt. to charge the rifle pitts in front of us. Major Wright4 was in command of the Regt.  Capt Sims5 was acting Lieut Col. and had charge of the right wing, and I was acting Major and had charge of the left. As soon as the order was given to charge, I jumped up on the breastworks and sung out for the men to follow me, and the way they tumbled over them breastworks wasent Slow. Poor Cap Sims led the right wing in fine style, and just before we reached their works the Johnies skedaddled. (6Our orders were to take the works and hold them, but after we had held them for about two hours, the rebs massed a heavy force, in a ravine just in front of us, but out of our sight, and came down on us like a whirlwind, and we were forced to fall back to our old line of works. I tried my best, to keep the men from falling back, but Capt Sims was killed just at this time so it was no use trying to rally the men untill they got behind their old works. The rebel charge was one of the boldest and most desperate things I ever saw, but if our men had staid there and fought as they ought, we could have inflicted a heavy loss on the enemy, before they could have driven us away from there. The rebs did not attempt to follow us beyond their works but they kept up a sharp fire on us from behind their breastworks, but as far as our losses are concerned our Regt got off very lucky, I think about 40 killed and wounded. Our troops in the fort held out till long after we were driven back, and several times the rebs charged right up to the bank, and some of them jumped over among our men, and went at it hand to hand, and before our men surrendered quite a good deal of fighting was done with the bayonet alone, but finaly they saw there was no help for them, and they were forced to surrender, and so the fight ended each side holding the same ground as at the commencement. One of the worst things of the whole affair was, that quite a number of our wounded lay between the rebel lines and ours, and there the poor creatures had to lay in the sun, untill the afternoon of the next day, when the rebs allowed us to send out a flag of truce to give them some water, but they wouldent allow any of them to be removed untill the second day after the fight when a ceecession of hostilities was agreed to for three or four hours, when what few were alive were brought off and the dead were burried. During the ceesession of hostilities some of our boys went out and brought in the boddy of Capt. Sims and it is now on the way to Brooklyn. Well Mother I think that is talk enough about fighting for this time. Things with us are going the same as ever,  we have not been paid yet, but we expect the pay master in the course of a day or two. Mother I should like very much to have you send me a dozen of my pictures (those you sent to me at Annapolis you know I never received) as I have promised them to several Officers, and they keep bothering me about them all the while,  I should like very much also for Walt to send me one of his new books as soon as it is published.7 Jeff asked me in a letter a short time ago, if there was any chance for a fellow (in case he was drafted) to get a substitute from the men of our who are discharged at the expiration of their term of service. None of the men who have been through this Campaign, will listen to Re-enlisting at present they all think they have had sogering enough and its no use talking to them untill they have been home a month or two,  then probaly a good many of them will change their minds. Mother dont neglect to let me know whenever you hear from Hannah. I commenced this letter last night (the 9th) but soon got sleepy and turned in, and I now begin to fell the same way so I will wind up and go to bed. Give my love to Mattie and all.Good night G. W. Whitman when you send the pictures Mother please send them by Mail "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/med.00324.html," Letter from William D. O'Connor to Walt Whitman ,","Aug 13, 1864",0.229430164559,"  Washington, D. C., Aug. 13, 1864.  My dear Walt: I am enraged and ashamed of myself to have never sent you a word responsive to your letters of July 5th and 24th. Believe that I have thought of you much, however, and for the last fortnight I have talked of you incredibly, saying superb things all the time, to Mr. Channing whom you know, and to Miss Griffith whom perhaps you have not heard of. She is a handsome and heroic Kentucky girl, who several years ago impoverished herself by liberating her slaves (seven of them, I think) and then came North to live, the South being hateful to her on account of slavery. She lives in New York, but has come on here for a time and is staying with her sister in Georgetown. She had heard much of you and was anxious to hear about you from me, whom she likes (of course!!!). So I told her much, painting you as the gigantesque angel of valor, compassion and poetry that you are, and reciting moreover all the splendid passages from your book that I could remember; besides numerous excerpts from your forthcoming volume! This, you see, involved considerable conversation about you and you must admit that I have kept you well in mind. I am indeed glad to know from your letter and from a recent report from Howells that you are getting better. I have felt very anxious about you. At times I had dreads that I did not like to own to myself. But the sky now seems clearing if not all clear and I can trust to see you well again and strong. The heat of the last fortnight has been fearful, but tonight, thank goodness, there has been a rattling thunderstorm, flash and crash, with a deluge of rain, and the moon now shines thorugh broken clouds on an earth drenched and cool. It was such rain as we have often seen here from my windows, only this time I saw it all alone. I drill every day between three and four in the afternoon. It is fine exercise and good for me, though what with the torrid sun (for we drill out of doors) and the weight of a sixteen pound rifle with accoutrements, it is pretty severe. Glad you got the Report on Armored Vessels. I thought it might yield hints for poems. At all events it gives one a good idea of what the monitors are and can do. They are, as I once said to you, an upheld finger of warning to all despotocracy. The Dictators will prove a clenched hand of menace to the same. Soon America can defy all outward foes. I want very much to hear that Drum Taps are printing. I have many misgivings about your plan of getting out the book yourself. I want it to have a large sale, as I think it well might, and I am afraid that this sort of private publication will keep it from being known or accessible to any considerable number of people. Such a volume ought to make your fame secure, and with a good publisher I think it would. How I wish Eldridge was in the field! Are you going to get it done by subscription? I want to know because I want to help as much as I can. The rascally Congress taxes me in September fifty dollars in a lump, besides my normal income tax, so that I shall not be able to do as well as I intended, but if subscription is the order of the day, I mean to give as much as I can. So let me know. Eldridge is down at Petersburgh paying troops. Alas, Walt! There is no hope of Richmond. The campaign has proved a failure. Everything shows that Grant is coming back and the next fighting will probably be in the Shenandoah Valley if not in Ohio or Pennsylvania. It is sad to think of the eighty thousand men, veteran, lost so fruitlessly. I think Mr. Lincoln's chances for the next presidency are very small. Victory at Atlanta is possible and may save him, but the signs are that the party will withdraw him and run some other man. I see New York had one of her oceanic meetings for McClellan lately. I fear he will be our next President. I am glad your brother continues unscathed. I think of him whenever there is fighting. Howells gave me splendid accounts of your mother. I hope I shall yet know her. Ashton is away at Schooley's Mountain, New York, vacationizing. I am quite alone here, save for the society of Miss Griffith, whom I go to see pretty often. The house is awfully lonely with Nelly away, and I don't like to stay in it. The Count2 I have not seen for several weeks. The last time I saw him he abused me frightfully   for the first time! I happened to say, very quietly, that the Rebels would probably repeat their raid into Maryland very soon. (A week afterward they did so and burned Chambersburg). Whereupon the Count clutched his straw hat down upon his head with both hands, danced like a demon on the pavement, howled out: ""You are an ass!"" and, in a word, behaved like a maniac. Indeed his conduct convinced me that he is a madman with lucid intervals. I seriously mean it. No one could burst into such tempests of rage and abuse on so slight an occasion and be sane. A few nights afterward he undertook to discipline the firemen with a pistol, during a conflagration, because they did not move quickly enough, for which freak he suffered fine and imprisonment. I hope you will come back here this Fall, dear Walt, and that our former days and nights may be renewed. For this time, good-bye. I will send your letter to Nelly.  Your faithful W. D. O'C.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00946.html," Letter from Ellen M. O'Connor to Walt Whitman ,","Aug 18, 1864",0.230110159119,"  Little Compton R. I. August 18. 1864. Thursday.  My dear Walt,    Your letter to Wm. of July 24. he forwarded to me in a letter that I got last evening.1 How glad I was to get it, and to know that you are so much better. I hope you still continue to gain, I hope you are well, but I do not really expect you to be wholly well until the cool autumn days come, that I so dread, & shrink from. I am very glad to get this letter, dear Walt, for I had really begun to wonder why you had so wholly forgotten me. Not one line to me have you written since leaving Washington, and now that I am away from there I have to wait for news of you in this long, roundabout way. After seeing you every day, & so much of you those last days when you were sick, it seems doubly strange not to have had a word from you. You will not think me foolish if I tell you that it hurt me a little, will you? You know what a foolish, absurd person I am, where I love anyone as I do you, and knowing this, and now I having confessed, you will pardon. Did you like my picture? You told William you got my letter, so you must have got the picture enclosed. It was in my first letter   I have sent you three, this is my fourth to you, have you got them all? It was too bad that we could not have a good quiet chat on the boat, for I spent the long afternoon there, & it was a very good place for a nice talk. I am so glad that there is some hope of your book coming out soon. I long to see it. Just think, Walt, of my being a lion down here on your account, because it is known that I have the honor of your acquaintance. Such is the fact, & I was made to talk two entire evenings about you,    it is so funny, some time I will tell you all about it. The bathing here is good, & the ocean   oh! so good. I board at a farm house, & keep as you do early hours,   up at 6 or earlier & to bed at 9. I have been here two weeks, & am so brown that I could easily pass for a good ""contraband,"" I nearly live out doors. The rocks tempt me, & there I sit & see the waves & foam dash up over them, & it breaks into fine spray, & is so beautiful. I never loved the sea so much, & I though before I loved it more than any thing.  How I wish you were here! It would cure you Walt, & how much I should like it. Little Jeannie enjoys it much, for she has hens, chickens, ducks & the horse to feed. She says tell Walt ""I hope he has got all over the sickness, entirely."" She sends love too. So it seems that Burnside is Court-martialed   events seem to prove that Irvinton was right in what he said of Burnside. Charlie says that the Officers say any Commander but Burnside would have taken Petersburg at the last attack.2 Mr. Howells tells me he has seen your mother, & he is enthusiastic about her.3 Thinks her such a grand old lady as one sees only once in a lifetime. Good bye. It is breakfast time, for you must know I have written this before breakfast,   so good morning, & good bye. How I wish you were here!  With love always    Nelly.  Have you seen a pretty little poem by Juliette H. Beach called Claire    It was published in the Leader I judge, & I saw it copied;   from it, I infer that she has a new baby, a girl too.4 Good bye.  Nelly.   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00360.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Aug 18, 1864",0.230110159119,"  Near Petersburg Va.   Aug 18th [1864] Dear Mother. I have only time to write a word to say that I am well, and that I this morning send you by Express $405.00  I send a note with the Express package. Please write as soon as you get the money Good bye.  love to allG. W. Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00603.html," Letter from Christopher and Maria Smith to Walt Whitman ,","Aug 29, 1864",0.231606147151, kind Sir as we have recieved your letter you sent to Bethuel I will rite a few lines in this and send it to you which is Bethuel's own hand riting he was wounded the 11 of June in his right leg a little above his nee he rode in a government wagon 4 Days then on about one Day and night then he came to Washington he got a furlow the first Day of July for forty Days at which period he returned to Washington to the hosptial  he was very thin in flesh but looked some better when he left home his health was not very good and if the [hospital] saves his life we expect him home again next month this from his parents   P.S. we will send your letter to Bethuel immediately we would be very glad to see you and are thankful to you for your kindness towards our son   Come and make us a visit we live 5 miles from Glensfalls West  
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00604.html," Letter from Bethuel Smith to Walt Whitman ,","Aug 30, 1864",0.231742146063, Friend Walt I received your letter today & was verry glad to hear from you wonse more I have bin wounded again but it has got well it hit me in the right thigh this time  I have had A pretty hard time of it this summer   A marching & fighting together dear walt I am so glad to hear from you once more I would like to see you verry much  I have drempt of you often & thought of you oftener still I expect to leave here tomorrow morning for Carlisle barraks I was to gow this morning but did not & now I am to gow tomorrow morning  I guess that they wont put it off anny longer my time is out in eleven days now  I have bin home on A furlow I shant have to do anny more fighting I think   Write soon   no more at present thew   Smith  
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00361.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Aug 30, 1864",0.231742146063,"  About 5 miles fromPetersburg Va near Weldon RailRoad   August 30th 1864 Dear Mother. Your letter and Walts containing the pictures came all right, and yesterday I received another from Walt, saying that you had received the money. We have moved 4 or 5 miles since I wrote you last. We came here on the 19th and expected to have a right smart fight, but so far, we have been very agreeably disapointed, as our Division has not been engaged to any extent. The first night we came here I was ordered (as I was in command of the Regt) to deploy the Regt. as skirmishers and advance through a peice of woods where the enemy had been in considerable force a few hours previous,  I thought we were in for a fight sure, but upon advancing and taking the position, as ordered, we found the enemy had fell back, and next morning we advanced ½ a mile further, to this place and here we have remained since. We have a splendid position here, and are very strongly entrenched, have plenty of shade, plenty to eat, plenty of good water, and are very comfortable. I think we have got this Rail Road all right although the enemy may make another effort to drive us away, but I dont believe they will meet with any better success than they have in the three attempts they have made already, they have been pretty severely punished each time and may not think it worth while to try it again but if they are not satisfied let them keep on trying,  we are prepared for them. I am in command of the Regt. as Major Wright is away somewhere sick. I send you Maj. Wrights Official report. of the fight on the 30th of July,2 I am very glad to hear that Jeff is clear of the draft on the 5th of next month, although $400 seems like a pretty large sum to pay for a substitute. Walt says he is getting all right again,3   when his book4 is published I would him, to send me a coppy. Mattie and the children I hear are well as usual. Mother I hope you take things easy and dont worry and keep a bright look out for that little place in the country,  When I get the New York papers I almost always look over the Farms for sale to see if there is anything offered that will suit us. Walt has asked several times if Williams5 (who was with Fred McCready6) was captured when the ambulance train was attacted,  Williams is here with his Company,  he says when the guerillas ordered the train to halt, he jumped over the fence and escaped. Kind regards to allGeorge W. Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00168.html," Letter from James S. Stilwell to Walt Whitman ,","Sep 2, 1864",0.232150142799," Dear Friend I take this time to write to you to let you know how I am I am well at presant my wound is most heald up and I hope that these few lines will find you well I reseived your letter and was glad to here from you but I was Sorry to here that you was Sick but I hope that you are well again before this time, I am home now I came home the (22) of august  I only got twenty (20) days furlough So I havent very long to Stay home it will be up the tenth (10) of this month I am A goin to new york A tuesday the Six (6) and if I have time I will come an See you I expected to have come home before or I should of wrote to you before this mother Send her best respects to you and would be glad to See you and So would all the rest I Shall try and get transfered to newyork before I go back to chestnut Hill, I will Send this to Washington and if you a[i]nt there they can Send it back to you fore I dont no how to derrect it to you to Brooklyn   So no more at preseant good by from your friend  James S. Stilwell  direct your letter to Commack Long Island N.Y. fore if I ant here mother will get it  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00169.html," Letter from Lewis K. Brown to Walt Whitman ,","Sep 5, 1864",0.232558139535," I once more after a long delay will endeavor to converse with you with the aid of pens & paper. I received a answer to my first letter stating that you wer at home sick. I was very very sorry to hear of it indeed, for it appears to be very hard for you to be sick, after being amongst it so much in the Hospitals & doing so much to seas [cease ?] it among the suffering & sick Soldiers, but if it is the will of God I suppose it is for the best. I hope by the time this reaches you that you will be in the enjoyment of good health. I have got my discharge from the Hospitals about 3 weeks ago & am now employed in the Provost Marshall office at the corner of 18th & I St at the enrolling office  I like the place very well but I dont know how long I will stay here. The salery is $ 3.00 per day & the work is very easy. We are allmost ready for the draft to come off I guess that by tomorrow Morning we will have all the cards wrote. there is over 2000 men to come out of the district & that is going to fetch some of the old rats out of their holes. There is a great deal of swindling done here now in the way of getting in substitutes  they get some in that a[i]nt 15 years [old.] Some of the Brokers will make a man drunk & when he gets sober he will be a Soldier with the uniform on him. One of the detectives arrested a deserter belonging to the 14th Broklin Regiment that deserted at the first Battle of Bulls Run  he has bin working for Adams & Co. Express here ever since until the detective got after him. he is now in Forrest Hall Georgetown. He will be assigned to some other regiment to serve the remainder of his time. I was down at the Armory Square Hospital. things have changed very much there  Dr. Bliss he charge2. The amiable Miss Lowell is still there & will be untill the end of the Chapter3. Cate is Ward Master4. Benedict is M.C. little Billy is still there but his time is out the offices in the Ward each give him $5.00 per week to stay & dress their wounds for them5 I Board down in the city with Joseph Harris (who by the way sens his love to you)6. I have bin boarding up on 18th & H st untill Saturday I moved down. Jo is not enjoying good health he is sick nearly half of his time. he did not know your address or he would of writen to you e'er this probily he will write & send some with this. Adrian Bartlett is boarding there allso7 & we will have a pleasant time of it he is still in the tresaury & I think probibly will stay for some time. Well I must stop & go to work now I will finish after while. Noon. I will now write some more. I took a trip down to Alexander a few days ago I went down in the Morning about 10 A.M. & came home about 4 P.M. I had a very pleasant time only I broke my leg just as I got ready to come home & had some little difficulty in getting home without my cruches   I got so I could walk quite well on my leg only last week my stump took a notion to brake out & there has bin two small pieces of bone come out but I think in a little while I will be ready to wear my leg again. The weather here has bin very bad but until within this last few days it has moderated & is now very pleasant. It looks very much like rain to day but I don't know whither it will get it down or not  I guess I have wrote about all I can think of this [time] so I must close  hoping very soon to hear from you I remain very affectionately your most sincear friend  Hoping you will forgive all mistake &c  I am as ever yours   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00170.html," Letter from Joseph Harris to Walt Whitman ,","Sep 5, 1864",0.232558139535," Dear Uncle Walt: Lew tells me he has just finished writing to you, and I take the opportunity of sending a few lines in his letter2, as a slight token of my affectionate regard for you. I am sorry to hear you have been ill; but hope that by this time you have fully recovered; and that we shall soon have the pleasure of seeing you in Washington, where you are so much missed by your intimate friends and the soldiers in hospitals. I am at present rather unwell;   with a billious attack   but hope to be up again in a day or two. There was a salute of 100 guns fired here at noon today, in honor of the news from Atlanta, which creates quite a Jubilee. There is now quite a shower of rain falling, and Lew and Bartlett are having quite a time down stairs3, while I am up here in our room, alternately throwing up bile, and writing to you. Very interesting, is it not? (I mean the bile - ing affair.) If you have time, please write me sometimes, as I will always be very happy even to receive a few lines from you.   Very respectfully yours  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00192.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Sep 11, 1864",0.233374133007,"  Brooklyn |  September 11 1864  My dear friend2 Well I am still home & no event of importance to write you about. My illness has passed over, & I go around the same as formerly, only a lingering suspicion of weakness now & then   I go out fishing & have been out riding frequently    There is a hospital3 here, containing a couple of hundred soldiers, it is only a quarter of a mile from our house, & I go there a good deal   am going this afternoon to spend the afternoon & evening   Strange as it may seem days & days elapse without their having any visitors   So you see I am still in business   Some of the cases are very interesting    My mother is very well, & the rest the same   We have heard from my brother up to the beginning of this month, he is well4   We felt pretty gloomy some little time since, as two young men of the 51st N Y, friends of my brother George & of our family (officers of 51st), were killed in battle within ten days of each other & their bodies brought on for burial here5   Mother was at the funeral of each of them, & I also   the regiment is on the Weldon road & in a position of danger    I have seen Mrs Price, she speaks of you & hopes to know you, she is only tolerably well   I have not seen Charles Howells6 for some time   I shall write to William to-day   I rec'd a letter from Charles Eldridge yesterday, he was to pass through New York yesterday on his way to Boston for two or three weeks   ""Drum Taps"" is not yet begun to be printed   Nelly, I was much obliged for the photograph   it reminds me of you & is good   how is dear little Jennie?   & you, my dear dear friend, how are you in health & spirits, & have you had a good time   O how I should like to see you all again    Walt I think it quite probable I shall be in Washington again this winter   (but not certain)   Give Dr & Mrs Channing7 my friendly remembrance    Who have you met & what seen or heard that I would like to hear of, for you must tell me    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00193.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to William D. O'Connor ,","Sep 11, 1864",0.233374133007,"  Brooklyn |  September 11 1864  Dear friend I have nothing of consequence to write, but I thought I would send you a few lines anyhow. I have just written Nelly a letter, & send to Little Compton   We are full of politics here, the dispute runs high & hot everywhere   I think the Republicans are going to make a stout fight after all, as there is confusion in the opposition camp   the result of course I do not pretend to foretell    My health is quite re-established, yet not exactly the same unconscious state of health as formerly   The book is still unprinted   Our family are all well as usual   I go two or three times a week among the soldiers in hospital here    I go out quite regularly, sometimes out on the bay, or to Coney Island   & occasionally a tour through New York life, as of old   last night I was with some of my friends of Fred Gray association,2 till late wandering the east side of the City   first in the lager bier saloons & then elsewhere   one crowded, low, most degraded place we went, a poor blear-eyed girl bringing beer. I saw her with a McClellan medal on her breast   I called her & asked her if the other girls there were for McClellan3 too   she said yes every one of them, & that they wouldn't tolerate a girl in the place who was not, & the fellows were too   (there must have been twenty girls, sad sad ruins)   it was one of those places where the air is full of the scent of low thievery, druggies, foul play, & prostitution gangrened    I don't know what move I shall make, but something soon, as it is not satisfactory any more in New York & Brooklyn   I should think nine tenths, of all classes, are copperheads here, I never heard before such things as I hear now whenever I go out   then it seems tame & indeed unreal here, life as carried on & as I come in contact with it & receive its influences    How is Ashton? & is he there again?4 I got a letter from Charley Eldridge yesterday   I suppose he is now in Boston   My dear friend, I often often think of you, & count on our being together again, may be quite soon   meantime good bye & God bless you & I send you my best best love    Walt We are having a sloppy rainy dark Sunday here to-day   Lewis Brown (that was in ward K Armory Square) is a clerk in the Provost Marshall's office, cor 18th & I sts5   I got a letter from him the other day   perhaps you may see him some time   I am going off for a couple of weeks soon, to Burlington, Vt.6   O how the rain is pouring down as I write   at the other window sits my mother reading the Sunday Herald   quiet & pleasant & soothing   only us two home to-day   not a word spoken in a long time    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00230.html," Letter from Lizzie H. Smith to Walt Whitman ,","Sep 17, 1864",0.234190126479,"  Watersboro Sept 17th  Mr Whitman I take the liberty of addressing you at the request of my cousin Milton S. Roberts, at whose home I am making a brief visit. He would not have delayed writing until this late hour, but he has not been well & did not feel in the mood of writing, & and under such circumstances did not think his letters would be very interesting. He has spoken a great many times to his friends how very very kind you were to him, & I assure you Mr. Whitman those kind attentions will never be forgotten. I hope that you may long be spared to do good among our sick & wounded soldiers, who indeed must feel very grateful to meet with such a friend as my cousin represents yourself to be. Kind words which cost nothing will often cheer their drooping spirits & as it sure give them new life and courage. My cousin seems to be gaining slowly, & his friends does not think him strong enough to return for two or three weeks. He would be likely to gain strength much faster at home thou he could in Washington He wished me to write you, if you would not be kind eough to see Dr Bliss in regards to his furlough being extended a several weeks longer, by doing this you will confer a great favor, he would have been in Washington at the time his furlough expired if he had been able, & as it was he was very anxious to go, but his friends did not deem it prudent. Please write him as soon as you can make it conveneient what Dr Bliss says. Milton thinks that by the time he receives a letter from you that he will be able to answer it. Mr. Whitman we all thank you more than words can express for your kindness to Milton.  Respectfully Lizzie H. Smith  Please direct Milton S. Roberts to Waterboro home.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00362.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Sep 17, 1864",0.234190126479,"  Near Weldon Rail Road Va. September 17th 1864 Dear Mother Here we are yet in the same place, and everything goes on just the same as when I last wrote. We have been expecting a big fight here, but so far we have been disapointed,  We have a very strong position and are having pretty good eaysy times. I rather think Lee has about made up his mind that this Rail Road is a gone case, but if he thinks he can drive us away I wish he would pitch in, as we are all prepared for him, and I would about as soon fight it out on this line as any other, and if they will only attack us here it will suit us first rate. Recruits have been coming to this Army pretty fast lately and I think Grant will soon have force enough for another movement. Our Regt. has received about 650 since we left New York last winter, and now numbers about 800 men, (on paper,)  We have about 400, men here, and the rest are on Detached Service, and in Hospitals. I received yesterday a map and newspaper from home,  the last letter I got was from Walt. and dated Sept 8th Walt. said Ed was not very well when he wrote but I hope he is all right again before now,  all the rest he said were very well indeed. He spoke of going to Vermont to see Hannah  I hope he will, and if possible bring her home with him to stay awhile. I suppose Mother, you have considerable excitement in Brooklyn now about election,  as far as I can see Little Mac.1 is not very popular in the Army, and I dont think he has the least show to be elected,  There has been lots of rumers flying aroun about Burnside's having a command seperate from the Army of the Potomac and taking the 9th Corps with him,2 but I dont see much sign of it yet, but our Corps never had a fair chance since we came in this Army. In the first place when we stared on this campaign we were not organized and equiped any thing like Meade's Amry, for while we were marching all over the Country they were lying quietly in Camp preparing and organizing,  besides we dont get much credit for what we doo, but I dont care much who gets the credit as long as the work is done, and I know that we have done a good deal of hard work in this campaign whether we have credit for it or no. Well Mother I am Brigade Officer of the day to day, and must take a walk out to the picket line to see that things are all right. It is very quiet here to day and there is no picket fireing going on. sometimes the johnies come out and fire a few shots at our pickets but it dont amount to much, and they evidently dont like the idea of tackling us here. Mother, give my love to Mattie and the little gals. G. W. Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00171.html," Letter from Justus F. Boyd to Walt Whitman ,","Sep 18, 1864",0.234326125391, Mr Whitman Dear Sir I once more take my pen in hand to write a few lines to you And if I dont get an answer to this I shall never write again. I have never recd a line from you since I left Washington  I am at present attending the Commercial College here in Detroit. It is a good institution if I can judge by the Book Keepers here in the City that have been through the course  I have been here about five weeks now and think it will take about four or five weeks longer. I think I can keep Books in any business that may be brought on the carpet  Now Mr Whitman if you could get me a situation as Book Keeper or Clerk in the Paymaster department or some other good place if you will I will pay you any price your a mind to ask. Detroit is a very pleaseant City  They have two or three Theaters going now  I was to one of them last evening they Played The Country Cousin  Miss Laura Keenns Company from N.Y. City have been here for the last week last night was the last night I persume you have seen her lots of times  No more until I receive a letter from you. Yours Truly   I have my Photograph when I receive yours I will send you Give my respects to Mrs. O'Connor.2 Jay  
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00172.html," Letter from James S. Stilwell to Walt Whitman ,","Sep 27, 1864",0.235550115599,"   Dear Friend I take this opportunity to write to you to let you know how I am I am well and my wound is A most healed up and I hope that these few lines will find you well  I received your letter and was glad to here from you and to here that you was well I havent got transfered to newyork yet I tryed to when I was at home but I could not So I had to come back here the Doctor ask me when I came back if I did not want my discharge I told him that I would rather be transfered to newyork and if I could not that I would like to have my discharge, he said that he would get me transfered or give me my discharge I walk with crutches yet Thomas flood is well and is ward master of this ward I thing likely that I shall go home Some time this month there was an order in the paper that we was all A goin to be Sent home to vote So no more at presant from your friend James Stilwell write Soon   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00386.html, Letter from Walt Whitman to the Editors of the New York Times,"Oct 0, 1864",0.235958112335," (Private) when a great general dies, you print his obituary, & his record, by its inspiration sometimes does as much good as his deeds.   I think the 51st New York Veterans, lately captured almost entire, while bravely fighting, deserves some such mention. The statements in the abstract I send are all facts. You will see I have avoided any thing like puffing, but given an abstract only. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00374.html," Letter from Reuben Farwell to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 2, 1864",0.236230110159,   Dear Comrad Yours I recived several weeks ago. Though I have been quite unwell like your self  This makes the fourth week I have been out of the Service of Uncle Sam  I hardly know what to write you at present because I do not know wether you ever will recive it or not. I am some better than I was when I arrived here I trust that you will excuse me in not writing you before Though I tried to find out by the Boys in Armory where you were But they could not tell Now Uncle if you will (not) Answer this after My being detained in geting yours from the Regt. I belonged to too this place I least I hope you will Try and give me a Reply I trust that this may find you well and in better health than when you wrote me last. I will answer All enquireys from you. this from one who would like to see you Indeed   A Comrad  Ruben Farwell  
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00363.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Oct 2, 1864",0.236230110159,"  Petersburg Va   Oct 2d/64 Dear Mother, Here I am perfectly well and unhurt, but a prisoner. I was captured day before yesterday with Major Wright,2 Lieuts Pooley,3 Cauldwell,4 Ackerson,5 Sims,6 and nearly the entire Regt. that was not killed or wounded  Lieut Butler7 was badly wounded  I am in tip top health and Spirits, and am as tough as a mule and shall get along first rate,  Mother please dont worry and all will be right in time if you will not worry  I wish Walt, or Jeff would write to Lieut. Babcock8 of our Regt (who is with the Regt) and tell him to send my things home by express, as I should be very sorry to lose them.9 G. W. Whitman Lieut Pooley is here and unhurt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/yal.00095.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Charles W. Eldridge ,","Oct 8, 1864",0.237046103631,"  Portland av near Myrtle | Brooklyn  Oct 8 '64  Dear friend, Your letters from Washington have all reached me, with the others enclosed. The last from you was dated Sept 27. You did not mention William in it   I should always like to hear about him & from him. Is Nelly in Boston? If so say I sent my best love, not forgetting little Jennie. The last letter I received from Nelly was from Little Compton Aug 18   I have written subsequently & directed there, which I suppose she received   I have not heard from her since    I am pretty well, perhaps not so unconsciously hearty as before my sickness   We are deprest in spirits home here about my brother George, (2d div 9th Corps)   if not killed, he is a prisoner   he was in the engagement of Sept 30 on the extreme left.31 My book is not yet being printed. I still wish to stereotype it myself. I could easily still put it in the hands of a proper publisher then, & make better terms with him. If you write to William I wish you to enclose him this letter   I wish him to receive again my faithful friendship   while breath & sense remain I cannot forget what he has been to me   I love him dearly    The weather here is fine of late   to-day a little blowy   The political meetings in New York & Brooklyn are immense   I go to them as to shows, fireworks, cannon, clusters of gaslights, countless torches, banners & mottos, 15, 20, 50,000 people   Per contra I occasionally go riding off in the country, in quiet lanes, or a sail on the water, & many times to the sea shore at Coney Island    All the signs are that Grant is going to strike forthwith, perhaps risk all   One feels solemn who sees what depends. The military success, though first-class of war, is the least that depends    Good bye, dearest comrade, write me whenever you can   if I make any move I shall let you know    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.01001.html," Letter from Hannah Heyde to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 17, 1864",0.238270093839,"  Monday afternoon Oct 17  Dear brother Walt Wont you write soon as you get this I want to know how Mother is, & what you think about George. dont you think he will be exchanged soon. do they fare hard do you think. you must know more than I do about it. can we hear can he write from there Major Wright writes from Petersburg. Oct 2. makes me think perhaps brother George has written or can write Write to me will you Walt I always feel better to hear from home. I shall be anxious till you write I sent this morning to the P.O. I thought I should hear.     I have been spared ever since that battle but I had a hope he was safe, because he always had been What will we do if we cant hear from him. I was glad the paper spoke of his being well I hope we will hear from him soon. you must certainly send it to me too if you get a line from him. I wish Walt I could see dear Mother and you all I hope Mother is well. I want you to write Walt perhaps you will tell me prisoners of war are not badly used. one cant judge by the papers I see George is the only [Capt?] name mentioned. is [illegible] thats wounded, the one that Mother speaks of in her letters. I mean is he a friend of brother George's.     I do hope we will hear from George, I wish Mother would write s its very long since she has written. I hope she is well of rheumatism. Write soon Walt. I try to not be anxious about Georg but I am  Good bye Han  tell Mother I am better and want to come home and see you all more than ever, give my love to all I hope Eddy is better  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00224.html," Letter from William E. Babcock to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 18, 1864",0.238406092751,"  Headquarters 51st N.YVNear Poplar Grove Church Va October 18th 1864  Walt. Whitman Dear Sir Your Letter came to hand this morning and I hasten to answer the Same. Your Brothers Effects will be Sent forward to Your Mothers address, Soon as we can get a permit from the Provost Marshall General, which I have this day Sent a request for. I was much pleased to hear from him and the rest of the Officers that were taken prisoners with him. And I know they were neither wounded nor killed, as we had no chance of hearing from them until your Letter Arrived. Every thing is quiet with Us and no news. So I will bring this to a close, by requesting you to write Soon.  Yours &c. William E Babcock1st Lieut 51 N.YV  P.S. Letters from You will at all Times be received & Answered with pleasureWE Babcock  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00173.html," Letter from William Mullery to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 21, 1864",0.238814089487,"   Dear Sir I have just returned home last eve[ning] from Washington, being there to see about getting the body of my son Capt. Michael Mullery of Co. I, 7th Regt N.J. Vols. who was killed while leading his men in a desperate charge before Petersburgh, Va., June 16th. I took a friend with me from Jersey City (T.C. Brown Esq.) but could only get a pass for one, so Mr. Brown has gone to City point to get the Body. he took the boat for city point last Wednesday at 3 oclock and is now I hope on his way back with the body. Your friend Jesse came home from Washington June 23rd on a 30 days furlough, and the same eve[ning] recd the sad intelligence of the death of our son Michael, when Jesse came home he was so reduced and weak that I thought he could not live a week, but he gained fast after a week or two, and returned back the 25th of July to Davids Island, (where he was transferred to from Washington) and from there he got transferred to Newark, and got another furlough on the 3rd of August, for 30 days and came home, and improved very fast, he returned Sept 5th, and is there yet at Ward U S. Genl. Hospital Center St. I took Breakfast with him yesterday morning. he look well and is fleshy, but not fit for the front. I will write to him to day and send him your letter, and he will call and see you at his earlyest conveniance, he spoke very highly of you when he came home and had your ""carte de viste""   and took it back with [him] to Newark, he is now assistant cook in the Hospital. he belongs in the 7th Ward. His Brother James is still at the front with Sheridan he is well and so far unhurt. Thank God, he has never been home since he went in the service, if he lives, we look for him next August when I must write to him, and let him know about the invitation you have given him to call & see you. I have another son Joseph who enlisted Sept 9th last year, for one year. he is with his brother James in Co K 15th NJ V. Mr. Thos. C. Brown keeps store at 21 Newark Av. Jersey City.   I remain Truly & Respectfully Yours Much Obliged  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00882.html," Letter from Bethuel Smith to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 22, 1864",0.238950088399,  [illegible]burg Oct. 22 1864  Dear friend walt I arrived home the 18 I had to [stop?] over my [illegible] on account of Sheridan fighting in the valley mother told me that you wanted me to stop & see you when I come home but it is to late now & I did not hear of it in time there is [illegible] considerable excitement here about the election. my health is not verry good at present I have got diarrhea some I think that it is on account of the change of climate & of food that makes me so although I feel verry well no more at present  good by From B Smith to Friend Walt  Address Bethuel Smith. Glens Falls. Warren. C.O.        N.Y.  
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00364.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Oct 23, 1864",0.239086087311,"  Danville Va,  October 23d 1864 Dear Mother. I wrote you a line from Libby Prison a few days after I was taken prisoner, but think it doubtfull if you received it. I was taken, (along with almost our entire Regt. both Officers and men) on the 30th day of September, near the Weldon Rail Road, but am proud to think that we stood and fought untill we were entirely surrounded,  Major Wright, Lieuts Pooley, Sims,1 and 9 other Officers2 of our Regt, are here,  Capt Walton3 and Lieut Butler4 was wounded, but I dont know how badly,  I am very well indeed, and in tip top spirits, am tough as a mule, and about as ugly, and can eat any amount of corn bread, so you see, dear Mother that I am all right, and my greatest trouble is that you will worry about me, but I beg of you not to frett, as I get along first rate.5 Please write to Lieut. Babcock6 Co. F of our Regt. and tell him to send my things home by Express. Much love to all.  G. W. Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00375.html," Letter from Reuben Farwell to Walt Whitman ,","Nov 7, 1864",0.241126070991,   Dear Uncle I received you letter of Oct 7th & here I am about to write you a reply. Times here have been rather busy Together with the Mass meetings & a Bridial Tour that lasted a week. This was not any of my own luck but to accompany the newly married set was all  I was on the Company. I have received only this letter Oct 7th & one writen to My Father of which both reached me the same mail. One came to me from the Regiment that one I answered & a reply came to me. I intend to Answer all of your Kind letters. But this one I have neglected on account of my being a way from home so long. My letter to you at the time I was Poisoned has has not affected me any that time I looked the whole City of Washington over to find you   but I looked in vain My foot is quite well so much so that one can not tell of my being hit there. Shortly after I came to the city again to be Mounted on a Horse & we layed in the Defences of Washington the time the Rebels came to attack the City. Then I went up the Shanandoah Valley untill the 24 day of August where I was Discharged. There was some very heavy fighting up there under Phil Sheridan2 & perhaps he has warmed the Johnnys since then. This Charles Davis I have not heard from since he left for home on a Furlough3. Wether he came back or not I can not tell Dear Uncle you gave me one of your Photographs & I shall always carry it with me in Remembrance of a Kind Friend & one who I have thought a good deal off. I hope that you will over look this neglect of mine in not writing you before this. This is rather bad writing any how & I am a fraid you will bother yourself in reading what I have scribbled. My health is very good at present  Also the same I wish to you My best wishes gose with this to you   Yours very Respectfully  
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00376.html," Letter from Reuben Farwell to Walt Whitman ,","Nov 21, 1864",0.24303005576,"   Kind Uncle & Friend Yours came to me on Friday last much sooner than I expected  Because my being so negligent of course I supposed you would act the same to me Last week I was sick so that the house was obliged to hold me very tight  It is kind of a curious thing for me. I can not go out in to the open air with out taking cold Perhaps you will call at Armory Square when in Washington. I have been thinking about going there this winter to wile a way some of these lonesome days My Folks have some objections to my going where I have been so often for the last three years. But there is nothing like geting used to a thing or too The least stormy weather here drives us in to the house   But the rainyest night on Picket in Virginia we had to stand any how. Even a snow storme or too we have had here then I thought about being by the side of a snug fire all curdleed up in a little heap half froze to death A good warme bed a fellow gets at home besides other fixens throwed in. I hardly evr thought of these when I Enlisted & perhaps I may try the self same opperations again. This is a curious world to live & sport in   There will be no Young ladies after this war closes. Because they are a fraid some of the loved ones will come home crippled & they will Marry while they think about it  Mostly of the Softer Sex will be old Maids waiting so long. I presume some of them are tired Yes I will tell her all about you one of these times & that before she is Married which wont be a great while. Well Uncle I hope this may find you still alive & well   My best respects To you, My Uncle  Adieu till next time  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00174.html," Letter from Jesse Mullery to Walt Whitman ,","Nov 26, 1864",0.24371005032,"   Mr. Whitman, Dear Friend I write these few lines to you in order that you may know where I am and also that I am in the enjoyment of middling good health  I heard from you through my Father some time ago and I have wanted to visit you but I am sorry to say my health will not admit of my being out much this cold weather2. If you remember I was wounded through my lung and the ball is now near my right kidney and I am not as healthy as I use to be before I was wounded. I feel quite well to day I have just received a letter from my Brother in my Regt (15th NJ) he spoke of you. I wrote him concerning you and he says he would like to see you. I think I owe you a thousand thanks for your kindness to me while in Hospt at Washington. I have often thought of you and wished I could hear from you. I would like to hear from that Lady who did so much for me. I think it was Miss Howard3. I think I will be well enough to come and see you in a week or two   and then we will talk over all the incidents of our short acquaintance in Washington. If you will answer this and set the day I will come and see you. I am a little deaf now from the earache but I hope we will get along with that. Hoping to hear from you soon I subscribe myself yours faithfully   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00947.html," Letter from Ellen M. O'Connor to Walt Whitman ,","Nov 30, 1864",0.244254045968,"  Washington. Nov. 30. 64. 400 L Street.  Dear Walt, How I wish you were with us this beautiful day! It is so warm that I sit here with three windows wide open. I have a little fire in the stove, and the sun pours in full and strong. It is a perfect day, & seems more like May than November. How are you? & is there any hope of your coming this way this winter? I have hoped you would but I begin to despair of it, as you have not come yet, and we have not heard from you. We have been feeling very blue at the prospect of losing Charley Eldridge.1 The Major is to be ordered to Boston, so they hear, tho they have not got their orders yet, and of course Charley goes with him. It is two weeks since they first heard a rumor of it, but I think they will go before Christmas. As soon as he told us, I thought that that lost us one more chance of seeing you, as he had asked you to stay with him at his room. How lonely we shall be with both you & Charley gone! I don't think of it any more than I can help. Every evening we talk of you, & wish you were here, & almost every evening we read from Leaves of Grass, read & admire. I don't believe, dear Walt, that you have in all the world, two heartier lovers & appreciators than William & Charley.2 What news of your brother George? I think of him very often. How is your mother now? & are the babies well? I presume you have seen Mr. Howells, if so you know that he has moved his family to New York.3 He has a position in the Custom House, & still retains, or was to retain his room where we called on him. Ms. Wood has not come back, & the Dr. talks of leaving, if he does, I shall miss Ms. Wood, for I still hope that she will come.4 John Johnson was wounded the last of Sept. and is at home now. His arm was shot below the elbow. He come in the other day & sat an hour with me. He asked for you. He was seventeen years old yesterday, & has been in service more than a year, he is very impatient to get well & go back to his company. We had a letter from Mr. & Mrs. Croffut, they both asked for you, you know they live in Rochester now.  Do you remember Mrs. Balch who dined with us once last spring? She & her husband are to live up stairs. We expect them this week from Boston. I was so glad to know that Mrs. Ginnaty was not to be my neighbor. The Gwynnes live in their own house now, & I guess very much in the old way.5 I don't know any more news to tell you. Just now I am very well, but I was quite sick soon after I got back & thought I had lost all - I had gained, but I am much better again, & find that I am very much better than I was last autumn. Jeannie is well, though she, too, has had an ill turn, she is just learning to read. I teach her every day now. William has a terrible cold just now, & sore throat, but has been very well & vigorous, as hearty as ever. We got home very well, and had a good journey. I am glad that we had the day with you, it was some satisfaction to see you for even so short a time. The election passed-off well, didn't it? & I am so glad that we are to have a better Congress next time. The Woods out, & some others like them. This three months will soon go. We feel very hopeful about Sherman, especially as this fine weather will help him so much. Do you think Grant will do any thing this fall? The Count asks for you every time that he sees William or Charley.6 He says he wants to see you, & sends love. We wished for you on Thanksgiving day. We had a quiet day, no one with us but Charley, he dined with us, & we all wished that you were here. William sees Mr. Leventen sometimes, I have not seen him yet. What about your poems? Are you at work on them now? & what about publishing? Have you done any thing since we came on? Write, won't you? I want to hear from you very much. I have spoken of writing every day since I came back, but have hardly touched a pen at all. Tell me what you hear from your brother. I have not yet been in any hospital since I came home, but I mean to go. Enclosed I send you the little poem that we spoke of by Ms. Beach.7 William says every day that he is going to write you, & he will soon. How is Ms. Price?8 My love to your mother, & very much to you, always, dear Walt, from  Your friend Nelly O'Connor    Come, sweet, I will sing you to sleep; Too tired, little darling, to creep? Then lift your white hands, and my arms From harms And troubles the baby will keep.   You've a musical name, baby Claire, And the color of gold is your hair, And your beautiful eyes, when they smile, Beguile The heart of your mother from care.   You are dimpled, and dainty, and sweet, From your head to your pink and white feet, And they talk in your curious tongue Among The angels you need to meet.   You have been with us - is it a year Since we welcomed you first, little dear? A year since the angels have kissed And missed The beauty that blesses us here!   Fall, snowy lids, over sweet eyes, Sweet eyes blue as midsummer skies! Sink, pretty one, into your nest, And rest Dear truant from Paradise!    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00195.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to an Editor , 26 ( ?","Dec 1, 1864",0.24439004488," Sir: whether it agrees with your own opinion or not I hope you will open your columns to this communication of mine, seeking to stir up the government to a general exchange of prisoners. I hope also you may feel to say a word about it editorially   if you could call attention to it. As I have sent similar communications this afternoon to one or two other papers, I would particularly solicit that you find room for it in tomorrow's issue.2 "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/hpl.00003.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to the Editor of the New York Herald , 26–29 ( ?","Dec 1, 1864",0.24439004488," Private note to Editor. Sir I respectfully ask you to print this communication written to start a public demand for the general exchange of prisoners of war.3 As the question now stands, the fault is altogether with our government. I hope you will feel to say a word editorialy about it, perhaps call attention in that way to the communication. I solicit that you will find room for it to-morrow morn'g as I have sent this afternoon similar communications to one or two other papers, (though this one is different in form & made specialy for the Herald. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00194.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Dec 4, 1864",0.244798041616,"  Brooklyn |  December 4 1864  My dear friend Your letter of November 30 came safe, & was truly welcome   if you have seen Mrs Howells2 she has told you that I intend returning to Washington this winter   I do not know how soon, but I shall come, almost certainly   Then Charles Eldridge is to be transferred to Boston   I am indeed sorry, on my own account, & yours & Williams, for he will be missed by us all, I believe more than he thinks for3    We are all well as usual. Mother remains well, & in pretty good spirits, better than I would have expected   My brother George still remains a prisoner   as near as we can judge he is at Columbia, S C   we have had no word from him4    About my book nothing particular to tell   I shall print it myself   also my new edition of Leaves of Grass   Most likely shall do it in the way we have talked of, namely by subscription   I feel that it is best for me to print my books myself, (notwithstanding some very good objections to that course, but the reasons in favor are far stronger)5    Dear Nelly, you & William have neither of you any idea how I daily & nightly bear you in mind & in love too   I did not know myself that you both had taken such deep root in my heart   few attachments wear & last through life, but ours must    Good bye, dear Nelly, & good bye, dear William, & God bless you both    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00225.html," Letter from William E. Babcock to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 12, 1864",0.245886032912,"  Camp 51st N.YVV.Near Petersburg Va December 12th 1864  Friend Walt. Haveing a little leasure this evening I will improve it in writing You a few lines. Since my return to the regiment we have been very buisy, and we still have a great deal to do in the way of Picket duty. The next day after my return we received orders to be ready to move at a moments notice which we did about noon the Same day took our backward track to the front of Petersburg, near to the place where Captain Sims was killed, We can stand in our boomproofs and See the verry place where he fell. At the present time there is a heavy fight going on on our left but for once the 51st have been left behind in Company with the 48th T.N. 36th Mass and 58th Mass all small regiments, to hold the lines in our front while the rest of our Division have gone to participate in the present engagement. it is rumored that we have the South Side Rail Road now in Earnest. I hope it may be So, but as yet we have no Official report andonly have the news from men that Say they have been to the front they Say it is correct. Yet I don't write it for Shure as we have been fooled So many times with the Same news. I have found Your Brothers large Trunk it was Stored at City Point. I had it fetched up and the Same is now in Charge of our Regimental Quarter Master and I will Send it home with the first Officer of my regiment that has the good luck to get a leave of absence. And if there dont a chance occur, Liet Schoonmaker will muster out of the Service on the 15th of January and I will Send it by hime. There is no news of importance with us that would itnerest you So I will close by Sending my best respects to Your Mother and Yourself likewise to all inquirng friends hopeing to hear from You Soon.  I remainYours &c WE Babcock1st Lt. Comdr. Co.A 51st N.YVV  Write soon and let me know the news WEB  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00218.html," Letter from Jesse Mullery to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 21, 1864",0.24711002312,"    Mr. Whitman, Dear Friend   I write these few lines to you in order that you may know where I am and also that I am in the enjoyment of middling good health I heard from you through my Father some time ago and I have wanted to visit you but I am sorry to say my health will not admit of my being out much this cold weather. If you remember I was wounded through my lung and the ball is now near my right kidney and I am not as healthy as I use to be before I was wounded. I feel quite well to day I have just received a letter from my Brother in my Regt (15th nj) he spoke of you. I wrote him concerning you and he says he would like to see you. I think I owe you a thousand thanks for your kindness to me while in Hospt at Washington. I have often thought of you and wished I could hear from you. I would like to hear from that Lady who did so much for me. I think it was Miss Howard. I think I will be well enough to come and see you in a week or two   and then we will talk over all the incidents of our short acquaintance in Washington. If you will answer this and set the day I will come and see you. I am a little deaf now from the earache but I hope we will get along with that. Hoping to hear from you soon I subscribe myself yours faithfully "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00226.html," Letter from William E. Babcock to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 25, 1864",0.247654018768,"  Camp 51st N.YVVNear Petersburg Va December 15th 1864  Friend Walt, Your kind letter came to hand in due time. And as this is Christmas night and I alone in my Shanty will improve it in writing You althouth there is not much new to write Yet I will make the Endeavor. I have been away all day as this is a day that all Niggers Should be free. and haveing an invitiation out to Eat roast Turkey of course excepted it and had a verry nice time yet I think had I been in New York or Brooklyn that I would enjoyed My-Self much better and Shall be glad to get back there once more as a citizen for to go there on a leave of absence is only an agrivation as the time is always So Short that one cannot heardly turn before he has to come back I Suppose that you have heard that we have a new Colonel Commissioned in our regt. who is none other than Capt. McKiben Bronets Brig. Genl. And I heard that there had been a Commisson issued as Lt. Col. to Some out Sider, I don't know how true it is, Yet I think it is a Shame to run over all of our Officers that are now Priosners of War  Who have Served and fought in the regiment Since the Orginization and for my part I Shall resign if what I hear is true. So You need not be Surprised if You hear that Your humble Servant has put in his Unconditional Surrender, and retires to Private life We have Sent Your Brother Georges large Trunk home to Your Mothers Address by Express So if you have not already received it You Can look out for it Hopeing to hear from you Soon  I remainYours &c WE Babcock1st Lieut Comdr Co[illegible]51st NYV  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00837.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to an Editor ,","Dec 29, 1864",0.248198014416,"  Dec 29 1864  Private note to Editor:1 Sir, I send you a communication which I hope you will publish for sake of the soldiers dying & suffering in Southern prisons   Would it be convenient also to say a few words editorially? I have taken the liberty to send you a few lines myself   if they are not acceptable, substitute something else    Walt Whitman 122 Portland av near Myrtle Brooklyn "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.01818.html," Letter from William D. O'Connor to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 30, 1864",0.248334013328,"  Washington, D. C., December 30, 1864.  Dear Walt: I have been constantly hoping to have you here again and now begin to see something more than a glimmer of fruition. Ashton2 has spoken (at my instigation) to Mr. Otto the Assistant Secretary of the Department of the Interior in your behalf, and Mr. Otto says that if you will write a letter of application to the Secretary of the Interior, he will endeavor to put you in3. Now, dear Walt, do this without delay. The object of your writing the letter is to get a specimen of your hand. Pick out, then, a good pen and write as fairly as you can a letter formally applying for a clerkship. Then enclose a copy of this letter to Ashton, so that he can follow it on to the Secretary. The first letter you will, of course, mail to the Secretary direct. Do this as soon as you can. We shall fetch it this time. I have every confidence that you will get a good and an easy berth, a regular income, &c., leaving you time to attend to the soldiers, to your poems, &c   in a word, what Archimedes wanted, a place on which to rest the lever. I shall wait anxiously to hear that you have sent on the letters. Have been thinking of you constantly for months and have been doing everything I could to secure you a foothold here. For a long time deceived (I must think) by Swinton's pretensions to influence and by his profuse promises, I hoped to get you either one of the New York State Agency Assistantships or the place of an Assistant Librarian in the Congressional Library (the latter would be really a sinecure if the right one was got)4. But who follows Swinton follows a will-o-the-wisp, and though I followed him remorselessly every blessed day for several weeks, and gave him neither rest nor peace, as the saying is, I got nothing except promises. Since I gave him up I have been badgering Ashton, who is a man of another sort, as what he has done shows. The difficulty was to get the right thing. He secured me some little time ago a place in the Post Office for you, but I declined it, because I thought it was not the proper place for you. I think a desk in the Interior would be first-rate. I told Ashton there was nothing I would not do for him if he would carry this affair to a safe conclusion. He has been very good and anxious in your behalf. He would have given 'you a desk in his own office if a vacancy had occurred as expected. Don't forget to do as I tell you immediately. I never answered your letter of September llth, but, dear Walt, I always think of you, though I write so seldom and so badly. You are never forgotten. I read your poems often, I get their meaning more and more, I stand up for them and you, I expound, define, defend, vindicate, justify them and you with all the heart and head I have whenever occasion demands. I got the Times with your long letter about the Hospital experiences, which I read with a swelling heart and wet eyes. It was very great and touching to me. I think I could mount the tribune for you on that and speak speech which jets fire and drops tears. Only it filled me with infinite regrets that there is not a book from you, embodying these rich and sad experiences. It would be sure of immortality. No history of our times would ever be written without it, if written with that wealth of living details you could crowd into it. Indeed, it would itself be history. I saw your letter about the prisoners. It was as just as powerful. I have been hearing for a fortnight past that it is the Secretary of War's ""policy"" which prevents exchange, and if this is true, I pray from my heart of hearts that it never may be forgotten against him. Reddest murder is white to an act like this and its folly is equal to its crime. It would be demonism of another kind indeed than the Southerner's, yet as bad, perhaps worse, because sprung from calculation rather than hatred. Such things make one sicken of the world. I write this letter at intervals between the press of office work, which has driven upon me in spasms today, but pretty severely when it did come. Any incoherencies in it, you may refer to the obfusticated state which such hurryings have induced in me. Farewell, dear Walt. I hope to hear from you very soon. We are all tolerably well at home. Eldridge comes every evening. We often talk of you. On Christmas you were wanted to make the dinner at home perfect. We all spoke of you. On Thanksgiving it was the same. At dinner that day I said ""I wish""   and stopped. ""What?"" said Nelly.5 ""I know,"" chirped little Jeannie, ""he wishes Walt was here."" Which was true   that was the unuttered wish. Let me hear soon.  Your loving W. D. O'CONNOR.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00712.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Garaphelia Howard , ( ? ) . ( ?",". 1, 1865",0.248606011152,"  Washington,  1865.  Garaphelia Howard,1 | My dear friend: Accept the thanks of many sick & wounded soldiers, for the $10, used to purchase articles for them, small sums, gifts, fruit &c. distributed by your money, through me. Walt Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00231.html," Letter from Dana F. Wright to Walt Whitman ,","Jan 4, 1865",0.249014007888,"  454 B'dway NY. Jany 4 1865  Mr Walt WhitmanDear Sir, I have since learned that you called at the ""DeSoto"" immediately after I had left. I remained there till 6:30 P.M. & thinking that you were prevented calling by another engagement, I left for home. I would be happy to meet you at any time you may be pleased to appoint. In company with Capt Holbrook I invited a gentleman, who has a relative   a prisoner of war at Camp Chase, Ohio. he is desirous of obtaining the name of some Captains, an order to obtain his exchange, by securing the release of the Captains. Your brother's name was given & the party promised to act upon it immediately. I can say nothing of its results. Several of my brother officers are desirous of obtaining a copy of ""the Reconnysance"" by Capt Sim's. & I would esteem it as a great favor, if you would enclose it, in a letter & send it to my address. I will assure you of its being returned in good order. You will please accept a copy of my Ca[illegible] accounts in exchange for your own.  With every assurance of respect I remain  Your Servant Dana F. Wright  address. Box 602 Post office  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00874.html," Letter from John T. Trowbridge to Walt Whitman ,","Jan 6, 1865",0.249286005712,"  Somerville, Mass. Jan. 6th, 1865  My dear Friend, I have been thinking much of you lately and wondering where you were (for I heard some time since that you had left Washington), when the New York Times came, with your long and interesting communication.  I do not, yet, from reading that, understand very well where you are, and I send this at a venture.  If this reaches you, please let me know your address, and I will try to send you something to help along your good work.  I sent you, some time last summer, by private hands, a copy of Great Expectations and two dollars in money, but could never learn that they reached you:  did they?  How are you now? A great change has taken place in my life since I saw you.  My dearest friend has left me, leaving in her place a little boy, now eleven months old.  A superb little fellow (although I say it); and in him I have great comfort. I went three times to find Dr. Le Baron Russell, with your note in my hand, but failing each time, I gave him up2. I am not trying to withdraw from the arena of popular literature; only the necessity of coining a livelihood has kept me in it so long.  I feel that, if I live frugally and sincerely, and do not use up my mental energies in rapid writing, I may be able to do something excellent.  I am about getting out a volume of poems   or, as you would say, prettinesses.  Sincerely your friend J. T. Trowbridge  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00196.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to William D. O'Connor ,","Jan 6, 1865",0.249286005712,"  Brooklyn  January 6 1865  Dear friend Your welcome letter of December 30 came safe. I have written & sent my application to Mr Otto,2 & also a few lines to Mr Ashton, with a copy of it.3 I am most desirous to get the appointment, as enclosing, with the rest of the points, my attentions to the soldiers & to my poems, as you intimate. It may be Drum-Taps may come out this winter, yet, (in the way I have mentioned in times past.) It is in a state to put right through, a perfect copy being ready for the printers   I feel at last, & for the first time without any demur, that I am satisfied with it   content to have it go to the world verbatim & punctuation. It is in my opinion superior to Leaves of Grass   certainly more perfect as a work of art, being adjusted in all its proportions, & its passion having the indispensable merit that though to the ordinary reader let loose with wildest abandon, the true artist can see it is yet under control. But I am perhaps mainly satisfied with Drum-Taps because it delivers my ambition of the task that has haunted me, namely, to express in a poem (& in the way I like, which is not at all by directly stating it) the pending action of this Time & Land we swim in, with all their large conflicting fluctuations of despair & hope, the shiftings, masses, & the whirl & deafening din, (yet over all, as by invisible hand, a definite purport & idea)   with the unprecedented anguish of wounded & suffering, the beautiful young men, in wholesale death & agony, everything sometimes as if in blood color, & dripping blood. The book is therefore unprecedently sad, (as these days are, are they not?)   but it also has the blast of the trumpet, & the drum pounds & whirrs in it, & then an undertone of sweetest comradeship & human love, threading its steady thread inside the chaos, & heard at every lull & interstice thereof   truly also it has clear notes of faith & triumph. Drum Taps has none of the perturbations of Leaves of Grass. I am satisfied with Leaves of Grass (by far the most of it) as expressing what was intended, namely, to express by sharp-cut self assertion, One's-Self & also, or may be still more, to map out, to throw together for American use, a gigantic embryo or skeleton of Personality, fit for the West, for native models   but there are a few things I shall carefully eliminate in the next issue, & a few more I shall considerably change.4 I see I have said I consider Drum-Taps superior to Leaves of Grass. I probably mean as a piece of wit, & from the more simple & winning nature of the subject, & also because I have in it only succeeded to my satisfaction in removing all superfluity from it, verbal superfluity I mean. I delight to make a poem where I feel clear that not a word but is indispensable part thereof & of my meaning. Still Leaves of Grass is dear to me, always dearest to me, as my first born, as daughter of my life's first hopes, doubts, & the putting in form of those days' efforts & aspirations   true, I see now, with some things in it I should not put in if I were to write now, but yet I shall certainly let them stand, even if but for proofs of phases passed away    Mother & all home are well as usual. Not a word for over three months from my brother George5   the probabilities are most gloomy. I see the Howells6 now & then. I am well, but need to leave here   need a change. If you see Miss Howard tell her Jesse Mullery7 has been to see me   came yesterday & has just left this forenoon. He talked of nothing but her. His life is saved, & he will have tolerably good strength & health, at least for present. His address is Ward 8, Centre st Hospital, Newark New Jersey. I was up at Mrs Price's the other night. She is better this winter. Mrs Paulina Wright Davis7 is stopping with her this winter. I have sent a paper with sketch of Hospital Visits, to Dr Wm F Channing.9 I cannot forgive myself for not acknowledging his assistance for the Hospitals, by letter at the time. I send you another paper also, as you might like it. I take it by a line in your letter that Charles Eldridge has not gone to Boston.10 I have been reading the strange articles from the Richmond press.11 A thousand Satans baffled, with terror, hatred, malignant squirming, appear in every paragraph. Little California is playing around me as I finish, & has been for half an hour. Love to dear Nelly & Jeannie & all. Walt Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00175.html," Letter from Herman Storms to Walt Whitman ,","Jan 11, 1865",0.249966000272," Dear friend Walter it is with the greatest of pleasure that I sit down to write to you in answer to the letter you sent me as it is some time since I heard from you, I am happy to inform you we are all well at present and sincerely hope this will find you the same  young Walt Whitman is well and hearty out of doors almost all day long rideing down Hill with his little sled he will be 7 years old if he lives till spring  he is much pleased with the Card you sent him he chose the dark one it is a good one your boy is smart to learn he has never been to school as the school is about 2 miles off but he can read right smart. my Father & Mother are smart considering their age they are still keeping House. George has been out here since last May he is stout he has done considerable work for me and we have had some nice rides going to the Political meetings last fall and we have elected our Man and I hope and pray he will with Gods help settle this trouble before long2. Walter I am sorry to inform you that I never got the paper you sent me and I think you better come out here yourself and give us the particulars yourself we would be very happy to see you, we all send our best respects to you and all your friends. you will see my pen and ink are both poor and myself a poor writer   so I will close by wishing you a happy New Year from your true friend "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00176.html," Letter from William H. Millis to Walt Whitman ,","Jan 12, 1865",0.250101999184," My Dear Sir It is with the greatest pleasure that I seat myself to give you a few lines to let you know that your most welcome letter came safe to hand and you dont know how glad I was to hear from you  I often thought of you and could not hear what had become of you. you stated in yours that you hoped that I had not forgotten you. I never will forget you so long as life should last. Uncle I have got very near well. the wound in my chest has got nearly well. I am so that I can go about and do light duty. Also my arm is geting along nicely but their is some slight pain yet but none to stop me from writing such a kind and affectionate friend as you have been to me. May god bless you forever I cant find words to tell you the love thier is in me for you. I hope you & I may live to meet again on this earth if not I hope we shall meet in the world w[h]ere there is no more parting   I will close hopeing to hear from you again soon  Very Respectfully, Your Obedient Servant & loving friend,  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00219.html," Letter from William T. Otto to Walt Whitman ,","Jan 12, 1865",0.250101999184,"  Department of the Interior, Washington, January 12, 1865.  Sir: Upon reporting at this Department and passing a satisfactory examination you will be appointed to a First Class Clerkship at a compensation of twelve hundred dollars per annum.2 I am, Sir, very respectfully, your obt servant  W. T. Otto, Assistant Secretary.  Walt Whitman, Esq. Brooklyn, N. Y.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00654.html," Letter from Ellen M. O'Connor to Walt Whitman ,","Jan 19, 1865",0.251053991568,"  Washington, D. C. Jan'y. 19th 1865.  Dear Walt,    I am rejoiced at the prospect of your being in Washington once more, & it seems that at last there really is a good chance of it. I saw your letter to Mr. Ashton which he got yesterday, telling him that you should probably be here about the 24th. William got your letter last week, and we were all glad that you felt like coming to try the position in the Interior. It will be so good to see you once more. Before Charley Eldridge left for Boston he thought of speaking to Mr. McManus to make him promise to let you have his room at the same price he had it, which was very low for a good room; but the uncertainty about your coming was so great then that I doubt if he spoke to McManus, but if you should think it best to have him do so, I know he would write to him for you. Charley hoped that you would come before he left, but the order came to go, & at last they had to pack up & go very suddenly, two weeks to-morrow it will be. We miss him very much, it seemed as if all were gone when he left,   we had not at all got used to living without you, & never should for that matter, but Charley was our daily visitor, & was a member of the family almost, since you & he left we have no one. Before you come, I wish you would call on the Howells if you find it convenient & if you do remember me to them please. I miss them very much, there seems to have been a breaking up of our friends & a scattering. In your letter to William you spoke of Mrs. Davis being at Mrs. Price's. I have been meaning ever since to visit her. If you see her please tell her I will soon. I am glad that Mrs. Price is better, remember me to her with love. Dear Walt I cannot tell you how deeply I sympathize with you all in your anxiety about your brother George. I have hoped that you would get some good news from him, and I pray that you may soon. It must be very wearing to your good mother. My heart is torn and my sympathies roused as never by anything before at the way our prisoners are treated. I am very sorry to hear that you have been sick, what was it? any return of the old trouble? I hoped that you were really well now, but you will have to keep away from the hospitals for some time I think. I was very glad of your letter of December 4th which I intended then to answer at once, but I have let the time slip by till now, though I have thought & spoken of you daily. I am very sure that never a day passes that you are not spoken of  by us, & by Charley when he was here. I am glad to know that you too, think of us. Your letter to William about your books interested us deeply, be sure to bring your perfect copy of ""Drum-taps"" won't you? You know that I never had the reading of any of those poems, though you meant that I should. I long to see you, & we shall be very glad to have you here once more. We are all very well, I am much better than I was last winter, my summer at the sea-shore & the sea-bathing has done wonders for me. It was a good investment every way. Mrs. Johnson Arnold's wife has a boy three weeks old, both are well. I have no news to tell you. Our friends are well, & I trust ere this, that you are so too. William would send love if he new that I was writing,   Jeannie is out playing & as usual, her voice is the loudest. She is learning to read words of two & three letters. Remember me to your mother. I hope that she & all are well at home, the babies too.  Good bye   With love    Nelly.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00197.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to William D. O'Connor ,","Jan 20, 1865",0.25118999048,"  Brooklyn  January 20 1865  My dear friend2 I suppose you must have heard from Ashton that I received Mr. Otto's letter,3 & that I returned for answer that I would report myself to him on or about Tuesday 24th instant. During the week previous to 16th I was quite sick, but this week I am about as well as usual. I intend to leave here on Monday 23d   shall take the 8 o'clock morning train, which will probably arrive in Washington about 7 in the evening. William, if you could hear of a room, I wish you would engage it for me   if Gwinne4 has one, it would do   take the first good room you find, if any, irrespective of price   it would do for a week or so, any how   would like convenience for a fire, as I am susceptible to chill this winter. We got word yesterday by means of an exchanged prisoner, from my brother George, but only up to November 27   at that time he was at Danville, Virginia, in confinement with 350 other officers. We hear that he is full of fortitude & even good nature, but like all the rest, starved, miserable & naked, to the last degree. We are all well, home here. Last night another snow-storm, but fine & sunshiny this morning   So far this winter, snow, rain, mud, melt, fog, with spells of sharp cold. I have received a letter from Charles Eldridge, from an island off in the sea, far beyond Boston. I suppose you got my letter of some ten days since. Nelly, I send you my love, & hope you are well & [in] good spirits. Farewell. Walt Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.01069.html," Letter from William E. Babcock to Walt Whitman ,","Jan 21, 1865",0.251325989392,"  Camp 51st New York NY Before Petersburg NY January 21st, 1865  Friend Walt Haveing this morning received a letter from Lieut William Caldwell of our regiment who was taken prisoner the same time that Your Brother George was2 I write you to let you know that Your Brother is still alive and well.  I will give you the names of the Officers with him just as he gave them to me viz Major Wright, Capt Whitman, Lieuts Ackerson, Tooley, Sims, Waldron, Carberry, Hoyne, Groenemyer, Loughsen, Whitbeck, and Murden3      he did not say in his letter where the men were and I hardly think he knew, or he would a have mentioned it.  He writes that they are short of provisions and requests me to send him a box, if nothing more than salt pork and hard tack.  So of course they must be pretty hard up for grub or he would not run the risk of haveing it sent through the lines.  I have sent to Walton to send to Lt. Caldwell a box of Stores.  And I would say if you could send some to George the same time it would come verry exceptable to him no doubt.  I wished I was where I could have a hand in fixing up something for my old comrade, but here we cannot get anything.  So I am going to trust to our friends at home to look out for all hands. Everything is quiet along our lines except just at this present time it is a raining verry hard, which makes it verry disagreeable for all that are on Picket.  but I shall have to bring this to a close by Sending my best respects to Your Mother and Your Self hoping to hear from you soon  I remain Yours &c  William E. Babcock4  1st St 51st NY NY   To Walt Whitman P.S. Direct to your BrotherCapt Geo Whitman 51st NY N Prisoner of War Danville, V[irgini]a C[onfederate] S[tates]  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00867.html," Letter from Aaron Smith to Walt Whitman ,","Jan 21, 1865",0.251325989392,"  Camp 51st Regt. N.Y.V.V. Near Petersburg Va January 21st, 1865 Walt Whitman Brooklyn N.Y.  Friend Whitman It has been a long time since I have seen or heard from you, and I suppose that you have nearly forgotten me, but if you will think back you will remember a man by my name, whom you met in Carver Hospital Washington D. C. where we met then the first time.  I never expected to be able to write you a line in the year 1865, but I have been spared for some other purpose I suppose.  And now you will please accept my thanks for all the favors that you have shown me while lying then unable to help myself. Lieut. Babcock2 has this morning recd a letter from Lieut. Caldwell3.  Caldwell and all the rest of our officers are in Danville Military Prison Va, he mentions Maj Wright Capt. Whitman Pooley Sims Ackerson Waldron Carberry Hoyme Groenemeyer [Loughson?] Whitbeck & Murden, they are all doing well, & all they ask for is for something to eat, Hard Bread and Pork, or anything that can be sent them, and as it is impossible for us to get them anything how I hope some of you good people at home will try and do something for them4. Lieut Babcock has shown me a memorial of the Old 51st and if you could possibly send me a few copies I would be very much obliged to you for your trouble.  Once more allow me to thank you for your kindness toward me while in Hospital. Hoping to hear from you soon I remain  Very Respectfully Yours &c.		 Lieut A. Smith 51st Regt N.Y.V.V. 1st Brig 2.d Division 9th A.C. P.S. Please send a paper occasionally [And?] oblige A. Smith  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00177.html," Letter from Jesse Mullery to Walt Whitman ,","Jan 23, 1865",0.251597987216," My Dear Friend, I have been thinking about writing you at Brooklyn but as I did not know for certain that you were there I have waited until now so that I might be shure this would find you in Washington I presume you are there by this time and I hope soon to receive a communication from you. I have thought of you very often since I saw you and would have gone to Brooklyn to see you again had my health been good enough. I have not been out much since I saw you as the weather would not admit and when the weather is stormy my wound pains me so much that I am obliged to remain quiet: I received a letter from James a few days ago acknowledgeing the receipt of your card. I also sent him your letter which he says he was very much pleased with: and he says he will always keep the card in remembrance of one who was so kind to me when I was so much in kneed of a little care When I wrote him before I did not tell him the picture was for him but merely enclosed your letter with the card in it telling him to return the letter after he had read it. And in answering he says The accompanying picture I understand is for me for which you will please give Mr Whitman my warmest thanks also for his kind rememberance of me  I hope he may live to see you for I believe he has a great desire to as he speaks of you in every letter    I presume you have seen some of my Washington friends ere this, and I hope to hear from them when I hear from you. If you see Miss Howard please remember me to her as you know I have good reason to thank her for many a kind turn which she wrought for me during my stay in that city2. I cannot forget Armory Square hospital and I have a strong desire to visit that place again. Please tell Mr Woods (if you see him) I am enjoying good health and I send my kind regards to him and all others that I am acquainted with who may be in Ward A.   Hoping to hear from you soon I will subscribe myself yours affectionately  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00220.html," Letter from William T. Otto to Walt Whitman ,","Jan 24, 1865",0.251733986128,"  Department of the Interior, Washington, D. C., January 24, 1865.  Sir: You are hereby appointed to a Clerkship of the first class   in the Office of Indian Affairs, of this Department   the salary of which is $1200 per annum, to commence when you have subscribed the enclosed oath, and entered upon duty. I am, Sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant  W. T. Otto,  Assistant Secretary.  Walt Whitman, Esq. of New York  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00605.html," Letter from Christopher and Maria Smith to Walt Whitman ,","Jan 26, 1865",0.252005983952,"   Mr Walt Whitman, kind Sir we have received your kind letters and perused them with much pleasure we will assure you that your letters will always be very acceptible with us your Comrad Bethuel Smith2 has gone about forty miles from her with his team to work by the Day he gets twenty shillings per Day he went this week his health is not very good yet i dont now how he will stand it if his helth is good enough to work he may stay sevral weeks his health was very poor when he come home and that is the news why he Did not come and see you he wanted to get home and be doctered for he thinks it a very poor place to doctor down there we have one son younger with us he is Choping in the lumber woods and the two girls are with us so you se we have but four in a family at presant the rest of our family are as well as usual thu[e] will rite when he gets home we have got your papers you sent and thank you for them as we dont take any papers at presant those come very welcome the republicans have elected there oficers at last now we shall see what they will do  we think the war will last four long years more at least it ought to be the most earnest prayer to almighty god that the war might come to a close that those suffering soldiers might return to their homes and we have peace and more throughout our land  there will a draft in this town within a few days we have three sones here that will be liable to the draft and two in Pennsylvania you have a Mother with you I would like to now of her welfare i think she has one great blessing to comfort her in her age and that is having a kind hearted Son well i cant rite much more at presant i will say we got your letter and like you sent last fall and think a great deal of it Bethuels wounds are all sound and well and he is not lame in the least but has not got well of the diaraee we have got most everything we could think and hear of and it dont cure him he has had it ever since he was wounded in last June sometimes he gets better but not well if you now of any you think would cure him i should like to have you write what it is We will rite some more there is a small village a few miles north of us called rider which letters sometimes goes when you put on Quens-bury we dont get them when they go there very often perhaps i have rote enough at presant we live in hopes we may see each other yet if our lives are spared this from Bethuels father and Mother   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00433.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Jan 26, 1865",0.252005983952,"  Brooklyn, N. Y., Jan 26th 1865 Dear Brother Walt, Mother received your letter2 to-night   we were all very glad to hear that you arrived so nicely and were so well established   The enclosed two letters came to-day3   I sent the box to dear brother George yesterday at noon directed just as you left word   I got some hoop iron and straped the box up strong   I dont suppose there can be anything wrong in sending it straped in that way   do you suppose there is? I had in it a ham piece of smoked beef can of milk (condensed) coffee can of peaches   crackers   potatoes   salt   and the clothes that he sent for   I think I will send him another next week or week after   We were all elated upon seeing the letters published yesterday about the exchange of prisoners.4 O I so hope they will make an exchange   can you not write something that will keep up the talk about the matter, sometimes little weights when the[y] fall at the right moment turn the scale and accomplish great results  Seems as if twould be worth almost a life time to help along such a thing as the general exchange of prisoners    so you have assumed the duties and honors of an officer of the government5  Mother was wondering at tea to-night what you would have to do   I told her that undoubtedly the first thing would be to calculate just exactly how many little indians John Brown6 did have   as that was the first thing the clerks had to do in the Indian dept.   What the devil is the Indian dept.   ? It is suggestive of scalps, war and paint   whiskey and laziness  However I suppose you have not yet had time to tell what the business is about but anyhow if it is only a comfortable berth without too much hard work, it will come in good7   I hope you will have good health   I would suggest that you should not go it too strong in the Hospital way, for a while   I would draw it mild for a month or so   How does it seem to you to go back   I suppose it looks quite natural   I hope to be able to come and make you a visit soon   probabaly some time next mont[h]   Write to me Walt   I like to hear from you often   Write to George tell him we sent his box and will send more Yours affectionately Jeff Mother, Mat and the babies send their love  the baby calls Walt   and asks if he is gone   Hat wants to be remembere[d] to Uncle Walt    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00838.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Thomas Jefferson Whitman ,","Jan 30, 1865",0.2525499796,"  Washington |  January 30 1865.  My dear brother, Your letter has only just reached me though I see the Brooklyn post office stamp is January 27th   I was gratified with Babcock's and Smith's letters, though I am very sorry they neither of them mentioned the date of Lt Caldwell's letter from Danville.1 If it should be much later than George's, which was November 27th, it would be a relief to know it   but I presume it was one of the same batch. Jeff, I have this morning written to Capt Mason,2 telling him where George is, & asking him, as that would be ten times more likely to get through, if he will have (or direct some proper person) to put up a box of things to eat, & given him George's address to send it through the lines, & said that I or you would pay the bill of course, & be most deeply obliged to him & that I would have enclosed the money in the letter I sent him, but thought it safer to wait & see whether it reached him.3 I have written to George since I have been here in Washington. Also a few lines to Han. We have had very cold mean weather here ever since I arrived till to-day   it is now moderated & very pleasant overhead. I am quite comfortable, have a comfortable room enough, with a wood stove, & a pile of wood in the room, a first rate & good big bed, & a very friendly old secesh landlady whose husband & son are off in the Southern army   she is different from any I have found yet here, is very obliging, starts my fire for me at 5 o'clock every afternoon, & lights the gas, even, & then turns it down to be ready for me when I come home. I get my meals where I can   they are poor & expensive   You speak of the Indian office   it is a Bureau in the Department of the interior, which has charge of quite a large mass of business relating to the numerous Indian tribes in West & Northwest, large numbers of whom are under annuities, supplies, &c for the government. All I have hitherto employed myself about has been making copies of reports & Bids, &c for the office to send up to the Congressional Committee on Indian Affairs. It is easy enough   I take things very easy   the rule is to come at 9 and go at 4   but I don't come at 9, and only stay till 4 when I want, as at present to finish a letter for the mail   I am treated with great courtesy, as an evidence of which I have to inform you that since I began this letter, I have been sent for by the cashier to receive my PAY for the arduous & invaluable services I have already rendered to the government   I feel quite well, perhaps not as completely so as I used to was, but I think I shall get so this spring   as I did indeed feel yesterday better than I have since I was taken sick last summer. I spent yesterday afternoon in Armory Square Hospital,4 & had a real good time, & the boys had too. Jeff, you need not be afraid about my overdoing the matter. I shall go regularly enough, but shall be on my guard against trouble. I am also going to some of the camps about here, there is a great chance among them to do good, & they are interesting places every way, for one who goes among the men. I have thought every day of Mother   dear Mother, I hope she gets along well this bitter weather   (about the hoop iron, I think it was the right thing to do5   the least they can do is to take it off)   My dear brother, you must by all means come & see me   Martha, my dear sister, I send you & the dear little torments my best, best love   Jeff, give my respects to Mr. Lane & Dr Ruggles6    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00434.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Jan 31, 1865",0.252685978512,"  Brooklyn, N. Y., Jan 31st 1865 Dear Brother Walt, I received your letter1 to day  glad to hear that you was getting along so nicely and feeling so well   I hope you will write me often  I feel very sad and downhearted to-night   I have just been reading about the prisoners as detailed before the committee on the conduct of the war2  is'nt it perfectly awful   have just read also Butler's speech3   I begin to think that after all that it is quite likely that Gen Grant is the one that does not want to give an exchange   do you think that it is so   can it be that he is willing to let the men starve and die without result. I have almost come to the conclusion that it is hardly possible that the things that we send to George can reach him (yet I propose to keep sending, hoping that a proportion may do so.)4 and have for the last few days been trying to think of some other way in which he might be relieved   I see by the papers of to-day that a certain ""Gen Haynes[""] and a another a first Lieut in a Michigan Reg had arrived at Richmond from Danville to be specially exchanged5   I have heard that they are making such special exchanges every now and then when the right ""axe to grind"" influence can be brought to bear   Now Walt if you will remember among the first men that blowed for Grant and wrote him up, so to speak was our friend John Swinton,6   When Grant visited New York the Dr7 says he sent for Swinton or expressed a desire to see him and Swinton called on him and they had a long interview   Swinton I believe passed quite a length of time with him on his Vicksburgh campaign &c   Now I am positive that a letter could be got from Swinton to Grant signed as Editor of the Times asking that a speical exchange might be made in George's case8   and I believe it would have effect   If Grant has charge of the matter and it could be made to look as if this great man   for I suppose of course he looks so to Grant   whatever may be the fact this editor of the administration paper of the City of New York desired the release of a certain man in fair exchange that it would be done   or at least they would be quite apt to do it.   Now Walt dont say that it would have no effect till you have thought the matter all over   the circumstances that are now surrounding the whole question   Gen Grant is just now in the position when a few words of censure in a print like the Times would do him great injury   I know he is in no danger of getting it from the Times yet he would   I should think like to make it sure by doing a supposed favor to its editor. Then it would be such a small thing for him to do. I fear that it is true that Grant has had charge of the matter for a long time and if so why then certainly he does not mean to exchange9 fearing that they will get good men for poor ones   Think the matter well over dear Walt   you can think of it in more bearings than I can   remember it would be but a small thing for us to attempt   If you would send me a note to Swinton asking him to do it for your sake I would willingly take it to him and plead for a trial   I could, I think   get Ruggles to ask him to do it   Poor mother reads about the treatment of prison[er]s and will set with her head in her hand for an hour afterward   she seems to feel it much more for the last few days than s[h]e did  I feel as if we ought to do something   even if it looks flimsy and of no success on purpose to cheer Mother up   I am glad you wrote to Mason10 yet I hardly think he will send anything   he is a good enough fellow but of course would have very little interest in this matter   Do write me Walt at once what you think of the matter   If the matter is in Grants hands I am confident twould be a success. Swinton told Dr Ruggles that he would like to send George something in the way of provis[ions]  the Dr also said he wou[l]d send something in the next box    Mother is quite well   but downhearted  Mattie and the children are very well and the young ones grow like everything   Last night Morris Roberts11   a friend of George's and Andrew's  died of spotted fever   you of course remember him   he was suprnt of the poor   he caught it somehow connected with his business  I understand that there is a great deal of it in the city some 9 cases in Johnson street near Navy    No news to tell   write me  all send love    Affectionately Jeff"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00839.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Feb 1, 1865",0.252821977424,"  Washington |  February 1 1865  Dear Mother, I sent Jeff a letter three or four days ago, which I suppose he received. There is nothing very new with me   I see in the U. S. Senate yesterday they passed a resolution that it was the sense of the Senate that there ought to be an exchange of prisoners. I feel as if there was a fair chance of the box you sent getting to George   I wrote to Jeff how I was so much surer that a box from City Point, would go through, that I had sent a letter to Julius Mason1 asking him to have a box made up there, & sent, giving him the address, & I or Jeff would pay the bill   if he writes to me that he has done so, I asked him to write if he got mine, I will send him the money myself    Well, mother, how are you getting along   we had a cold week, but the past three days has been much moderated   I am satisfied in the main with my room. I have such a good bed   & my stove does very well   it is a little bit out of the way in location   My work as clerk in the Indian office is quite easy   I am through by 4   I find plenty who know me   I received a week's pay on Monday, came very acceptable   My appetite is not very good, but I feel very well upon the whole   I wish you would ask Wm Fosdick2 in the corner house for the Times, & also sketch of 51st I lent him, & put them away   I am very glad I have employment (& pay)   I must try to keep it   I send you an envelope, so that you can write me a letter soon as convenient. I send $1 for Nancy, the other for you   I may not write again till about the 12th, or perhaps 10th    Tell Hattie & sis Uncle Walt sent them his love. I see Gen. Butler3 says the fault of not exchanging the prisoners is not his but Grants. Walt.    My room is 468 M street, 2d door west of 12th   from 10 till 4, I am in the Indian Bureau, north-east corner Patent Office, basement.4 "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00435.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 3, 1865",0.253093975248,"  Brooklyn, N. Y., Feb 3rd 1865 Dear Brother Walt, As I was at the office and nothing particular to do this evening I thought I would have a little talk with you Did you see the Tribune of to-day   It had a long letter from Mr Richardson about the exchange of prisoners1   I thought strongly and well written   to-night's Evening Post extracts quite a long passage from it.2 How horrible the whole thing is. It does seem as if the Government could hardly dare to turn a deaf ear to the call for an exchange   I wish you could write upon the same subject and keep it before the reading public   I intend to send another box to George this week if I can   oh if he could only get them   What do you think about it   is it Grant's policy, after all, that prevents a general exchange   do you learn anything about the matter   I wrote you a few days ago about trying to get a special exchange of George through a letter from John Swinton3   what do you think of it   I have thought a great deal about it and think it perhaps might work There is nothing new with us   yesterday the landlord sent over word that he should want more rent for the house   he did not say how much more  I told Mat and Mother that we would tell him to set the price on the part we occupy and if we did not wish to pay it we would move   I suppose it will be some weeks yet before we know how much he wants   but one thing is certain I am not going to make and have such a time as we all did last year4  Mother is quite well   I think to-day [she] is [or] seems in better spirits than usual   Mat has been over to New York ""looking for work"" as usual to-day with partial success I believe   and as a matter of course bought a new carpet and some other things. The children are getting along first-rate Somehow I dont see as much of the Dr5 as I used to  the last time I saw him he asked how you was getting along and how you felt   He exp[r]esses a desire to learn in regard to your health   So you like your place   I am glad of that   for it makes it much more pleasant to have a steady income per month if one can only not dislike the duties that are to be performed for it   I hope to be able to come and see you some time this month I have been quite exercised lately about trying to build a little ""extension of a house"" on the lot in Flatbush Av.   but have about come to the conclusion that I had better wait   material is so very high just now and I should have to borrow the money which would cost me say on a $1000. $100 for the coming year   well the rent for the year will not be much more than that and dont you think that things must be cheaper before another year   What is your idea of this peace business6   is there anything in it. It seems to me as if there is  I think if they once get to talking in earnest that it must come without much more fighting I wish you would write me quite often Walt  somehow since you went away this time I have felt lonely   I suppose its because I dwell so much on the thought that something ought to be done to see if we can't do something to help George. Oh if we only could it seems to me it would be worth almost a life time   Jess I have not heard from since you went away  I suppose I ought to go see him but they are taking such quantities of small pox patients out to that hospital (even out in the cars they take them) that I am almost afraid to  We are having an immense quantity sick with that disease   and the excitement is quite intense Just now in looking over the Evening Post I saw among the musical gossip a notice that our old friend Bettini was winning great success in Warsaw7   tis the fist time I have seen his name in 10 or 12 years   I've no doubt the mention of his name will call to you many pleasant thoughts   those were very pleasant times Walt. Of course any information in relation to George   or about the exchange   or treatment of prisoners   or what not that relates to keeping up a fellows courage you will write me at once All send their love Affectionately Your brother Jeff"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/med.00306.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to John Swinton ,","Feb 3, 1865",0.253093975248,"  Washington,  Feb 3, 1865  My dear friend,1 From the deep distress of my mother whose health is getting affected,2 & of my sister   & thinking it worth the trial myself, I write this hastily to ask you to do, or rather if you have an objection to do, as follows: Write a brief letter, not filling more than one page, letter paper, to Lt. Gen. Grant. Date it from the office of the Times, which will add to its effect, & recal you to Gen. Grant. It is to request him to give directions, that one of the special exchanges (of which they are now making quite a number) shall be made, in favor of my brother George, and also another officer same regiment. State in short terms that Capt. Whitman has been in active military service of U. S. since April, 1861, nearly four years, has borne his part bravely in battles in nearly every part of the war in the United States, east & west, including Vicksburgh & Jackson, Miss.   has an aged widowed mother in deepest distress. Ask Gen. G. to order a special exchange of Capt George W. Whitman, 51st New York Vol.      & Lieut Samuel Pooley,25 51st New York Vol. both of whom are now, or were lately, in C. S. Military Prison, in Danville, Va. (both the above officers have been promoted from the ranks for conduct on the field)    Walt Whitman My address is simply to Washington D. C. as I go to post office for my letters.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/pml.00013.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Abby H. Price ,","Feb 4, 1865",0.25322997416,"  Washington | February 4 1865  My dear friend,1 As you see by the date of this, I am again back in Washington. I spend a portion of my time around among the Hospitals as formerly   I find quite a good many bad old lingering wounds, & also a good many down with sickness of one sort or another   & the latter are receiving accessions every day   especially as they appear to be breaking up the Corps Hospitals in front, down in Grant's army   a good many of the men have been sent up here   day before yesterday I saw a string of over a hundred ambulances, bringing up the men from the depot, to distribute them around to the different Hospitals. My health is pretty good, & I remain in good spirits considering. I have a little employment here, of three or four hours every day. It is regular, & sufficiently remunerative   Sundays I spend most of the day in the Hospitals   during the week a few hours from time to time, & occasionally in the evening. Abby, I write in haste to catch this evening's mail, so will not make out much of a letter. I was not able to get over and make you a parting visit, as I wished. I send my love to Emily and Helen and all    Walt Whitman Direct to me simply to Washington, D. C. as I go to post office for my letters.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00870.html," Letter from John Swinton to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 5, 1865",0.253365973072,"  New York Feb. 5  My dear Walt    I most cheerfully write the note you request to Gen. Grant, though I do not know that it will be of any service.  I enclose it to you, for the reason that in the new aspect of the Exchange question you may not think it worth mailing.  Since your letter was written, the statement has been published (and you have doubtless seen it) that Grant has made the arrangements for a general exchange which is to be begun immediately, and carried on with all possible promptitude.  It may be, and I trust will be, that under these circumstances your brother will be at once exchanged in the general mode.  However, I leave this for you to decide by what you may have heard when you get this.  Hoping you are now in health and that your lost brother may soon be restored to you and his mother  I remain yours J. Swinton  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00307.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to John Townsend Trowbridge ,","Feb 6, 1865",0.253501971984,"  Washington,  Monday February 6, 1865.  My dear Friend: As you see by the date of this, I am back again in Washington, moving around regularly, but not to excess, among the hospitals. . . . My health is pretty good, but since I was prostrated last July, I have not had that unconscious and perfect health I formerly had. The physician says my system has been penetrated by the malaria   it is tenacious, peculiar and somewhat baffling   but tells it will go over in due time. It is my first appearance in the character of a man not entirely well. The talk here is about the late Peace Conference2   the general statement accepted is that it has been a failure and a bubble   even the war is to go on worse than ever   but I find a few shrewd persons whose theory is that it is not at all sure of its being a failure   they say that the President and Mr. Seward are willing to avoid at present the tempest of rage which would beat about their heads, if it were known among the Radicals that Peace, Amnesty, every thing, were given up to the Rebels on the single price of re-assuming their place in the Union   so the said shrewd ones say the thing is an open question yet. For my part I see no light or knowledge in any direction on the matter of the conference, or what it amounted to, or where it left off. I say nothing, and have no decided opinion about it   not even a guess (but rather leaning to the generally accepted statement above). My dear friend, I haven't your last letter at hand to see whether there is anything that needs special answer   I hope to hear from you often. For the present Farewell. Walt Whitman Direct to me simply Washington, D. C., as I call for my letters daily at the post office. Should you have an opportunity to see Dr. Le Baron Russell,3 3 Mt. Vernon St., tell him I wished you to thank him for many favors and contributions to the men in times past, and that I am now back in Washington. If perfectly eligible, it might help me in the cause of the men, if you were to prepare a paragraph for Mr. Shillaber's paper,4 if he were willing to publish it, stating that I am now as a volunteer nurse among the Hospitals at Washington & in the field as formerly. Write soon as convenient. W. W.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00436.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 7, 1865",0.253637970896,"  Brooklyn, N. Y., Feb 7th 1865 Dear brother Walt    Yours received1   We are all very joyful over what you wrote in regard to George   It seemed to put new life in mother   I went to see the Dr2 to-day   He said immediately that he would go and see Swinton3 and talk with him about the matter and urge him to write to Gen Grant  The Dr. thinks that Swinton will do it and that Grant will grant the request   He seemed to feel very sanguine about it   Oh I so hope that we will prove successful in getting George exchanged I was glad to see that Mason4 made a response to your asking him to send supplies to George   I intend to send a box this week if I can The enclosed letter5 came to the house for you  Mother opened it   I thought I would send it to you and you could tell me if any more of the same style came whether to send them to you or not    We are now having quite a snow storm   it looks as if it would be quite deep   I am rather sorry to see it for it looks hard for the soilders  I feel disappointed in regard to the peace talks.6 I was in hopes that we had had war enough  It seems almost impossible that the south can keep up the fight much longer   however I think the president showed a great deal of cuteness in going down to see them and if he only told them that the Union was all he asked [he showed] more statesmanship than I ever gave him credit for  I see that a great many here have not yet given up the idea but what there is something more to come   the desire for a peace on the basis of the Union alone seems so far as I can see meets with universal applause Well Walt so you have gone to keeping house7 have you  You must be car[e]ful or you will get sick again   I fear you do not live well   I think the great cause of good health is good eating   Keep up the supply of good things   Do you have about the same experience in the Hospitals as you used to   were the men glad to see you back   were any remaining that you used to visit  if so I know they were glad to see you   and it must seem like old times for you to go among them   Do you see many of the friends that you used to know then   I suppose you visit the Hospitals once a day   are there as many in them as there used to be   I hope not   tis so long since we have had any very large battles that I should suppose the Hospita[l]s were not full8 What is it about the Exchange of prisoners   do you know it looks to me as if they were trying to delay the exchange and yet talk about it as if they were going to do it and wished to do it all the time   I was very glad to have you write that Hichcock said Butler lied9   I thought as much but did not dare to believe it either  I do hope that Grant will make an exchange   The people seem almost to demand it   Do talk it up   Walt   write it up if you have a chance   One thing I think I see and that is that whoever does delay it that they are pretty well frightened about it and want to humbug the people with the idea that they are going to exchange at once   I was almost overjoyed a few nights since to see a dispatch that the President had ordered a complete and general exchange   but alas it turned out to be nothing Mother is quite well   Mat and the babies are well and all send their love   the baby often calls ""Walt"" to come  Write me affectionately Jeff"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/yal.00100.html," Letter from Julius W. Mason to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 16, 1865",0.254861961104,"  City Point Va Feby 16th 1865  My Dear Friend, The Box for your brother, Captain Whitman, was sent on the 10th. There will be no doubt of its reaching him as it was delivered to Col. Mulford personally who promised to give it particular attention. The letter will go by 1st Flag of Truce. I am very glad to be able to do all this for you, and anything else you may desire.  Truly your friend J. W. Mason  Walt Whitman}  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00864.html," Letter from Elliot F. Shepard to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 16, 1865",0.254861961104,"  New York 16th Feby '65  My Dear Walt Whitman: On the receipt of your favor of the 26th ult., I arranged with Captain Walton for the sending of a box to our dear and brave boys at the Danville Military Prison.2 And to-day I am having a box put up which will start tomorrow. Captain Wright does not think the boxes will ever reach our boys   but this shall not prevent my trying to get them things to keep the breath of life in them, and to cheer them up3. Of the articles you enumerate, I omitted tobacco, fearing it could perfume and render the food impalatable.  I added dessicated vegetables in its' stead. It is about time you heard from the first box you sent. Have you? If the accounts in the papers are correct, we ought to have the boys back again before long.  I hope their turn for exchange will come first. Major Marsh has arrived back at the regiment again, after a short visit here. A letter from Capt. M. Ready just brings me word that they are in good spirits after the movement on the left.4  Very truly Yours, Elliot F. Shepard  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/yal.00099.html," Letter from William Cook to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Feb 19, 1865",0.25526995784,"  Annapolis, Feb. 19th, 1865  Mrs. Louisa Whitman: Madam: I enclose the memorandum your son gave me Feb 14th. If I can tell you anything further, myself, about him I shall be happy to do so.  I am, very respectfully, William Cook Capt 9th U[nited].S[tates]. C[olored].I[nfantry].  92 W. 10 St. New York  George W. Whitman Capt. 51st Regt, N.Y.Vols. Prisoner of war at Danville Va in tip top health and spirits. Mother Address. Mrs Louisa Whitman, Portland Ave near Myrtle Ave, Brooklyn N.Y. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00365.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Feb 24, 1865",0.2559499524,"  Officers Hospital  Annapolis Md. Feb. 24th 1865 Dear Mother, I arrived here yesterday from the Hotel De Libby and if ever a poor devil was glad to get in a Christian Country it was me. I am perfectly well Mother although I am in the Hospital Buildings, and am not under Medical treatment. The reason that I am quartered here is that the Hotels and Boarding Houses in town are cramed full,  I stay here for one dollar and a half a day while the Hotels charge three or four dollars and we are just as comfortable as I want to be. I drew 2 months pay to day and bought a new suit of clothes and now I feel something like a white man. I made an application this morning for a leave of absence for 30 days and I expect to be home in the course of 3 or 4 days. We left Danville on the 19th of this Month and stopped in Richmond untill the morning of the 22d. On our arrival at Richmond I found 2 boxes filled with Clothing and grub for me and the way we went into the eatables while we were in Libby was a caution. Mother I am very anxious indeed to hear from you all and wish you get to write or Telagraph to me (as soon (as you get this) as possibly I may get it if you write before I leave here. I have lots of yarns to tell you Mother but will wait untill I get home as I cant do justice to the darn Rebs, in a letter. You cant imagine how I want to see you and Mattie and the children and all the rest. Good Night Mothergive my love to allG. W. Whitman Direct Officers Hospital  Annapolis Md2 "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00840.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Captain William Cook ,","Feb 27, 1865",0.256357949136,"  Washington  Feb. 27, 1865.  Captain: Could you give me a little further information about my brother Capt. George W. Whitman, 51st New York, who gave you the slip you sent from Annapolis Feb. 19, with his & mother's address, Feb. 14th? Why did not he, & the other officers, 51st N. Y., come up with the main body, for exchange? Were the other officers 51st there at Danville, time you left? Please tell me all you know, or think probable, on this subject of why they did not come? Have they been sent further south, to avoid exchanging them, or are they still at Danville? Was my brother really well & hearty? Was Lieut. Sam'l Pooley, 51st N. Y., there, & how was he? Do you know whether my brother got letters & boxes we sent him? Was he in the attempt to escape, Dec. 10, last? My dear sir, if you could take a leisure half hour & write me, soon as possible, what you know on these, or any points relating to my brother, it would deeply oblige me   address1    Walt WhitmanWashington D C "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/sta.00002.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to John Townsend Trowbridge ,","Mar 3, 1865",0.256901944784,"  Washington  Friday, March 3, '65.  My dear Trowbridge, Your letter has reached me   my best thanks for your contribution to the wounded & sick, & shall be applied in most needy cases. You speak of seeing Dr. Russell1   has he not rec'd a N. Y. Times of two months since containing a sketch of my Visits to Hospitals2   I thought one had been sent him. If he has not had one I should like to send one to him. The paragraph in the Gazette by Mr Shillaber is very kind. I do not wish you to send me any of the papers. Nothing new or special with me   I believe I told you I was working a few hours a day, a sufficiently remunerative desk in Indian office   I spend a couple of hours day or evening in the hospitals. Farewell. Walt Whitman Washington, D.C. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00849.html," Letter from Celia M. Burr to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 7, 1865",0.257445940432,"  Troy March 7th 65  Your last letter from Washington in the paper lying on my lap   Your book in the hands of my friend Lucy who sits there by the window reading it in the morning sunshine.  She looks up suddenly and says ""I think this is the soul I am waiting for, is Walt Whitman married?""  I cannot answer the question, but will you?   I am not interested to know if you are married, but I would like to look in your face.  How many years did you live ere you could look into the depths of all hearts.  Through what experiences did you learn that lore?  Remember, if ever the opportunity comes I will look in your face.  It should say all that is in your book and something more.  I want that something more.  Celia M. Burr (Care of Madame Willard) Troy N.Y.)  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/med.00308.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Dana F. Wright ,","Mar 13, 1865",0.258261933905,"  Washington, |  March 13, 1865  My dear Sir:1 Would you do me the favor, if convenient, immediately on receiving this, of enclosing the sketch by Capt. Sims,2 and directing it, Capt. George W. Whitman, Portland Av. near Myrtle, Brooklyn New York    How are you getting along in New York and how is your brother, Major Wright?3   I send him best regards. I am still here in Washington, and nothing new. Yours, etc. Walt Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00134.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to William Douglas O'Connor ,","Mar 16, 1865",0.258669930641,"  Brooklyn, N. Y., March 16th 18651 Mr. W. D. O'Connor2 Dr. Sir, I received this morning yours of March 14th3   I am deeply sensible of the interest you have taken for me and return my sincere and heartfelt thanks for it. The position   although very desirable in all respects is one that I am not in the least qualified to fill   it is an entirely different branch of the profession from that in which I have been engaged   My Engineering education and entire experience has been in the construction of work[s], such as laying out masonry, location and the general superintendance of building a piece of work   As a draughtsman I am totally deficient   my efforts in that direction being limited entirely to a rough pencil sketch to convey the idea of what is wanted to the workman   Therefore I am certain that I am not qualified and could not justify your generous recommendation of me for the appointment Hoping sir, that I may some time personally thank you for the trouble you have taken and kindness shown me I am very respectfully Yours Cdially Thos J. Whitman"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00198.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to William D. and Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Mar 26, 1865",0.260029919761,"  ENGINEER'S OFFICE, NASSAU WATER DEPT. 355 Fulton Street, | Brooklyn, N. Y., March 26 1865.  My dear William & Nelly O'Connor, I write a few lines to tell you how I find the folks at home   Both my mother & brother George looked much better than I expected   Mother is quite well, considering   she goes about her household affairs pretty much the same as ever, & is cheerful. My brother would be in what I would almost call fair condition, if it were not that his legs are affected   it seems to me it is rheumatism, following the fever he had2   but I don't know   He goes to bed quite sleepy & falls to sleep   but then soon wakes, & frequently little or no more sleep that night   he most always leaves the bed, & comes downstairs, & passes the night on the sofa. He goes out most every day though   some days has to lay by   He is going to report to Annapolis promptly when his furlough is up   I told him I had no doubt I could get it extended, but he does not wish it   He says little, but is in first rate spirits. I am feeling finely   & never enjoyed a visit home more than I am doing this. I find myself perplexed about printing my book. All the printers tell me I could not pick a more inopportune time   that in ten days prices of paper, composition &c will all be very much lower &c. I shall decide tomorrow. My brother Jeff wishes me to give you his sincerest thanks for your good will &c in the matter of the engineer's situation   Mother says he has talked much about it, & feels your kindness in it thoroughly.3 Martha & the little girls are well. My sister at Burlington Vt. is not well, & mother will probably pay a long visit there this summer. Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00853.html," Letter from Peter Eckler to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 22, 1865",0.263701890385,"  New York April 22, 1865  W. Whitman [illegible] sir On page 31 verse 2 line 3 of Drum Taps the word ""recalls"" is spelled ""recals.""  According to Webster & Worcester it is wrong but before taking the responsibility of altering it, I wait for your decision.  Please let me know as soon as possible.  The other corrections and alterations [deletion, illegible] I enclose a proof of 'O Pioneers!'"" [&?] I think is improved I enclose a bill showing the balance[illegible]ount.  If I receive [illegible] printing done by Saturday,[illegible] you can transmit me the cost and I will deliver the [texts?] to your binder.  Your Respectfully, P. Eckler    [To cover stereotyping &?][illegible]  $114.60 Two taking extra paperwork  2.00 Cover & stereotyping & pages  3.00 Alteration of plates  1.00 One box for plates  1.00 3 Reams paper  63.00 [7 "" ?]  8.25   $192.85 Cr[edit] by cash  138.00   54.85 Sent $20 April 26 $20 May 2 leaving (May 2 '65.) $14.85 due   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00880.html," Letter from Peter Eckler to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 26, 1865",0.264245886033,"  New York April 22, 1865  Mr. Whitman Your book is now to proofs & will be ready for the Binder next Monday morning. As there was nothing done yesterday & the day before on account of the funeral, my waiting for your reply did not retard the book much. Alvords foreman promises to do a good job & I hope he will [illegible] I sent you record of [illegible] page Mr Belts [illegible] Send you a copy as soon as published & another copy to Congressional Library of Washington. What will complete your copyright   His office is in Beckman [01   in Johnston's ?] Old Theater.  Respectfully P. Eckler  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00854.html," Letter from Peter Eckler to Walt Whitman ,","May 1, 1865",0.264925880593,"  New York May 1st, 1865    Mr. Walt Whitman    I have just been to Mr Alvord's and find your Drum taps printed very nicely indeed.  Please send me [balance?] of bill ($94.25) as per agreement and I will deliver them to your binder.  The copy of ""Leaves of Grass"" is at my office subject to your order.  The plates of ""Drum Taps"" are in Mr. Alvord's vault.  Respectfully, P. Eckler 40 Fulton St.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/med.00310.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Mrs. Irwin ,","May 1, 1865",0.264925880593," Dear madam: No doubt you and Frank's friends have heard the sad fact of his death in hospital here, through his uncle, or the lady from Baltimore, who took his things. (I have not seen them, only heard of them visiting Frank.) I will write you a few lines   as a casual friend that sat by his death-bed. Your son, Corporal Frank H. Irwin, was wounded near Fort Fisher, Virginia, March 25th, 1865   the wound was in the left knee, pretty bad. He was sent up to Washington, was receiv'd in ward C, Armory-square hospital, March 28th   the wound became worse, and on the 4th of April the leg was amputated a little above the knee   the operation was perform'd by Dr. Bliss, one of the best surgeons in the army   he did the whole operation himself   there was a good deal of bad matter gather'd   the bullet was found in the knee. For a couple of weeks afterwards he was doing pretty well. I visited and sat by him frequently, as he was fond of having me. The last ten or twelve days of April I saw that his case was critical. He previously had some fever, with cold spells. The last week in April he was much of the time flighty   but always mild and gentle. He died first of May. The actual cause of death was pyaemia, (the absorption of the matter in the system instead of its discharge). Frank, as far as I saw, had everything requisite in surgical treatment, nursing, &c. He had watches much of the time. He was so good and well-behaved and affectionate I myself liked him very much. I was in the habit of coming in afternoons and sitting by him, and soothing him, and he liked to have me   liked to put his arm out and lay his hand on my knee   would keep it so a long while. Toward the last he was more restless and flighty at night   often fancied himself with his regiment   by his talk sometimes seem'd as if his feelings were hurt by being blamed by his officers for something he was entirely innocent of   said, ""I never in my life was thought capable of such a thing, and never was."" At other times he would fancy himself talking as it seem'd to children or such like, his relatives I suppose, and giving them good advice; would talk to them a long while. All the time he was out of his head not one single bad word or idea escaped him. It was remark'd that many a man's conversation in his senses was not half as good as Frank's delirium. He seem'd quite willing to die   he had become very weak and had suffer'd a good deal, and was perfectly resign'd, poor boy. I do not know his past life, but I feel as if it must have been good. At any rate what I saw of him here, under the most trying circumstances, with a painful wound, and among strangers, I can say that he behaved so brave, so composed, and so sweet and affectionate, it could not be surpass'd. And now like many other noble and good men, after serving his country as a soldier, he has yielded up his young life at the very outset in her service. Such things are gloomy   yet there is a text, ""God doeth all things well""   the meaning of which, after due time, appears to the soul. I thought perhaps a few words, though from a stranger, about your son, from one who was with him at the last, might be worth while   for I loved the young man, though I but saw him immediately to lose him. I am merely a friend visiting the hospitals occasionally to cheer the wounded and sick. W. W. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/rut.00002.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Peter Eckler ,","May 2, 1865",0.265061879505,"  Washington |  May 2 1865.  Mr. Eckler:1 Dear Sir: I enclose $20 in further liquidation. I wish you would send me a copy of each of the printed sheets, by mail   as I suppose Alvord has printed them. Before I left New York I paid Bradstreet2 $20 in advance for binding the first 100. I rec'd the copyright & receipt. I thank you for your kindness in getting the copyright. Walt Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00178.html," Letter from Jesse Mullery to Walt Whitman ,","May 3, 1865",0.265197878417,"   Dear Friend Your welcome epistle of the 24th of April came to hand this morning and found me in good health and as usual very glad to hear from you. My Brothers James & Joseph are both well and in the Regt and wish me to return thanks for your kind remembrance of them I received a letter from you written at Brooklyn bearing date of the 13th of April we marched from Burksville the following day. I have not had a chance to answer it. We finished our march to this place last Thursday afternoon and as soon as we halted my Regiment were ordered on Picket where we remained three days, consequently I could not write; and since we came in from picket we have been under marching orders. By the way we are waiting transportation towards Petersburgh. Our train started yesterday morning and about tomorrow we will start. We wait now for the Cars to return which took the 2nd Brigade of the Division in that direction on Monday. The soldiers have not emerged from the gloom which was cast over their minds on hearing of the death of our Beloved President. My heart is to full to write anything about him, for I cannot tell how well he was liked by the Soldiers who fought for the Flag under him. I am pained to say that many of my company secretly rejoiced when we received the news of the assasination. But none dared to cheer although if some Rebel had proposed it there were plenty ready to join in. All I want is to see the assassin dealt with if caught in a proper manner. I hope I shall soon have the pleasure of seeing you in Washington when I will tell you a great many things that I cannot write. Look out for me when you hear the 1st Div. of the 6th corps coming to Washington. We are kept very close now on account of the Orders for going back. Otherwise I would try to visit the Prison Camp and also the burying ground. There are a large number of my comrades buried there and I should like to have the satisfaction of seeing their graves. Should you see Miss Howard please remember me to her.2 Hoping to see you soon I will close for the present. Please write me before unless you hear of the Corps coming home. Yours truly.   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00841.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Peter Eckler ,","May 3, 1865",0.265197878417,"  May 3, 1865.  P. Eckler:1 As I remitted $20 May 1st, which I suppose you duly received, I herewith enclose $14.85, as payment in full. Deliver the sheets to A. Simpson, 8 Spruce street, & send me his receipt. Leave the copy of ""Leaves of Grass,"" with Mrs. Louisa Whitman, Portland av. 4th door north of Myrtle, Brooklyn. If you have the plates of the two cancelled pages, I wish you would take three impressions of each page & enclose to me. Walt WhitmanWashington D. C. I will trouble you also to send me Mr. Alvord's receipt for my plates, in his vault. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00855.html," Letter from Peter Eckler to Walt Whitman ,","May 4, 1865",0.265333877329,"  New York May 4th, 1865  Mr. Walt Whitman To Ballance bill Printing ""Drum Taps"" $34.85  Paid  P. Eckler2  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00437.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","May 4, 1865",0.265333877329,"  Brooklyn, N. Y., May 4th 1865 Dear Walt, We received your letter1 and [were] glad to get it too   We had all begun to feel a little worried about George   glad to hear that you are getting along so nicely   The Expressman did not come for your trunk yesterday as he promised so I called last night and [a]gain left the order   to-day at noon they came and got it giving a receipt for it  Enclosed I send the Key. I like to get letters from you  Matters are going about as usual with us. Mother is pretty well Mattie and the Children very well   I hope you will enjoy your cake that they put in the trunk   It looked nice when I put it in  I packed it Tuesday night and had it already Wednesday, but they did not come for it  I hope to be able to make you a visit this summer yet   How would it do to come when the review of the Army happens2   could i see it or would it be like our New York shows   how long do you suppose George will remain around Washington?3 I should like to come before he goes away   Write Jeff"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00366.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","May 8, 1865",0.265877872977,"  Head Quarters  Prince St. Military PrisonAlexandria Va.   May 8th 1865 Dear Mother I arrived here and joined the Regiment about ten days ago and was placed in command of this Prison. I am very well, indeed but have plenty to do as I have about 300 Prisoners (mostly thieves, Bounty jumpers and Deserters) to look after. I have 100 of the men of our Regt. and 5 Officers here with me guarding the Prisoners. There is about 20 Rebel officers here (Paroled Prisoners) but they are used very different from what we were, when we were in Rebeldom. I saw Walt when I came through Washington, and I hear he was over to see me yesterday but did not find me. Well Mammy the war seems to be over, and I think the most of us will soon be sent home. It is now getting late (after Eleven O clock at night) and as I feel rather tired I will go through the Prison and see that all is right and then turn in. I sleep here in the building (I have a very good room) and take my meals at a Boarding house  I pay 6 dollars per week for grub but dont live any of the best. Good night to all.Direct Capt G. W. WhitmanComdng Prince St MilitaryPrison  Alexandria Va"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00221.html," Letter from William T. Otto to Walt Whitman ,","May 11, 1865",0.266285869713,"  Department of the Interior, Washington, D. C., May 11, 1865.  Walt Whitman of New York is hereby promoted to a Clerkship of the Second Class in the Office of Indian Affairs to take effect from and after the first instant.  William T. Otto,  Assistant Secretary of the Interior.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00438.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","May 14, 1865",0.266693866449,"  Brooklyn, N. Y., May 14th 1865 Dear brother Walt I received your letter1 in due time. I am indeed glad to hear that you are so well and get along so nicely   We are all well as usual   and time slides along as usual   a day or two ago I to[ok] Mat and Hattie out on the line for a ride   very pleasant   and Mother said the little one was as good as she could be   indeed I think Mother rather likes to have her all to herself   When you come on again we must certainly take a ride or two out   The country looks splendid   everything is growing as finely as can be We had a letter from George a few days ago   Mother tells me that George is wanting to get a position as Captain in the regular Army   I have though[t] considerably about it and have made up my mind if we all go to work it could be done quite easy2   Jule Mason3 was at my house yesterday and I had a long talk with him about it   he said that just now there was no way   as the regulations only admitted officers that had graduated at some military school   but said that undoubtedly that in a very short time that objection would be removed   he said that he could help us in the matter a good deal and would do all in his power with pleasure   he said he (George) ought to go about it at once by getting a good firstclass endorsement from the officers he had served under   all that he could   and then bring what ever other influence he could on the Sec of War and Gen Grant   He said in his duties he was brought sometimes (quite often) in such intercourse with Gen Grant that he could (and it would come in good too   not far-fetched) speak a recommendation for George  I spoke with Mr Lane4 and he said that he knew very intimately the new senator from California (Bidwell)5 and that he was certain he could get him to give his influence to the thing and would willingly do anything in his power   And then there is John Swinton6 I am sure he would help   perhaps by writing a letter to Stanton7   and we ourselves could get Congress man Bergen8 to aid the matter   thinking it all over I am sure that if the restriction prescribing those not educated in a military school is removed George can get the same position in the regular army that he now has   but for God-sake dont let him think of enlisting in the army with the expectation of being promoted  that is too dangerous   Will you give the matter some attention and see how the matter stands   Mason is stationed in Washingt[on]  hunt him up and talk the matter over   he can and will help us if we will only make the effort I am going to try all in my power to come on to Washington at the time of the review9   if I can possibly leave I shall come   I want very much to see something that will make me remember the war    Mother received a letter from you Friday10   I heard that Worthen11 had sent a letter to you containing $25. did you get it? When you see George give my love to him   talk over the matter that I have written abt. and see what he thinks of it. All send their love Affectionately Jeff"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/wwh.00008.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","May 25, 1865",0.268189854481,"  Indian Bureau, basement of Patent Office.    house 468 M st 2d door west of 12th Washington, Thursday, May 25, '65  Dear Mother, I received your letter of the 22d   I feel uneasy about you all the time, & hope I shall get a letter to-day, & find you have recovered. Well, the Review is over, & it was very grand   it was too much & too impressive, to be described   but you will see a good deal about it in the papers. If you can imagine a great wide avenue like Flatbush avenue, quite flat, & stretching as far as you can see, with a great white building half as big as fort Greene on a hill at the commencement of the avenue, & then through this avenue marching solid ranks of soldiers, 20 or 25 abreast, just marching steady all day long for two days, without intermission, one regiment after another, real war-worn soldiers, that have been marching & fighting for years   sometimes for an hour nothing but cavalry, just solid ranks, on good horses, with sabres glistening, & carbines hanging by their saddles, & their clothes showing hard service, but they mostly all good-looking hardy young men   then great masses of guns, batteries of cannon, four or six abreast, each drawn by six horses, with the gunners seated on the ammunition wagons   & these perhaps a long while in passing, nothing but batteries   (it seemed as if all the cannon in the world were here)   then great battalions of blacks, with axes & shovels & pick axes, (real southern darkies, black as tar)   then again hour after hour the old infantry regiments, the men all sunburnt   nearly every one with some old tatter all in shreds, (that had been a costly & beautiful flag)   the great drum corps of sixty or eighty drummers massed at the heads of the brigades, playing away   now and then a fine brass band   but oftener nothing but the drums & whistling fifes   but they sounded very lively   (perhaps a band of sixty drums & fifteen or twenty fifes playing ""Lannigan's ball"")   the different corps banners, the generals with their staffs &c   the Western Army, led by Gen. Sherman,1 (old Bill, the soldiers all call him)   well, dear mother, that is a brief sketch, give you some idea of the great panorama of the Armies that have been passing through here the last two days. I saw the President several times, stood close by him, & took a good look at him   & like his expression much   he is very plain & substantial   it seemed wonderful that just that plain middling-sized ordinary man, dressed in black, without the least badge or ornament, should be the master of all these myriads of soldiers, the best that ever trod the earth, with forty or fifty Major-Generals, around him or riding by, with their broad yellow-satin belts around their waists   and of all the artillery & cavalry   to say nothing of all the Forts & Ships, &c, &c. I saw Gen. Grant too several times   He is the noblest Roman of them all   none of the pictures do justice to him   about sundown I saw him again riding on a large fine horse, with his hat off in answer to the hurrahs   he rode by where I stood, & I saw him well, as he rode by on a slow canter, with nothing but a single orderly after him   He looks like a good man   (& I believe there is much in looks)   I saw Gen. Meade, Gen. Thomas,2 Secretary Stanton, & lots of other celebrated government officers & generals   but the rank & file was the greatest sight of all. The 51st was in the line Tuesday with the 9th Corps. I saw George, but did not get a chance to speak to him. He is well. George is now Major George W. Whitman3   has been commissioned & mustered in. (Col. Wright4 & Col. Shephard5 have done it, I think.) The 51st is over to the Old Convalescent camp, between here and Alexandria, doing provost duty. It (the old camp) is now called Augur General Hospital. If you should write direct, Major G. W. Whitman | 51st New York V. V. | on provost duty at | Augur Gen'l Hospital | near Alexandria | Va. It is thought that the 51st will not be mustered out for the present   It is thought the Government will retain the re-enlisted veteran regiments, such as the 51st   If that is so, George will remain as he is for the summer, or most of it   The reason I havn't seen him is, I knew they had left provost duty in the Prince st. prison, but didn't know where they had gone till Tuesday   I saw Capt. Caldwell6 Tuesday, also Col. Wright Tuesday night   they said they all have pleasant quarters over there. Dear brother Jeff, I was very sorry you wasn't able to come on to see the Review   we had perfect weather & every thing just as it should be   the streets now are full of soldiers scattered around loose, as the armies are in camp near here, getting ready to be mustered out. I am quite well & visit the Hospitals the same. Mother, you didn't write whether you got the package of 5 Drum-Taps   I keep thinking about you every few minutes all day   I wish I was home a couple of days   Jeff, you will take this acc't of the Review, same as if it was written to you. Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/yal.00090.html," Letter from Milford C. Reed to Walt Whitman ,","May 26, 1865",0.268325853393,"   Mr. Whitman Sir I am in great trouble again and of course must write to you about it.  I was in Washington the 2nd and I went to No 34 4 ½ Street and pawned my Watch a good American Lever, for $22.07 which I was to pay within a month but I was robbed of my pocket Book which contained a receipt which he gave me for the wach  now I want you to go there if you will and see the man (I dont know his name) and if the thief has not already been there and got the wach I want you to tell him not to let any one have it on that receipt.  I will soon be there myself and redeem it for I am going to be discharged within a few days when I will come and see you.  You will confer a great favor on me by going at once to see about it.  I would like to have the fellow arrested if he should bring the ticket for the Wach for I had another Stole from me at the same time.  Write to me as soon as you find out about the Wach for I am very anxious about it.  I dont want to loose both Waches  I have written this in a great hurry.  write to me soon from your good friend It is No 34 4 ½ St.   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00439.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Jun 4, 1865",0.269549843601,"  Brooklyn, N. Y., June 4th 1865 Dear Walt, Mother sent you a letter yesterday1   and a few moments afterward received one from you   Mother is getting quite around again   although I think she fails considerably   she is always quite bad mornings   it takes her some time before she can get around much  When I got home last night Mat told me that during the afternoon Mother came up stairs crying as if her heart would break all on account of that lazy baggage Ed   Mother cant do anything with him   he wont wait on himself hardly and wont do the least thing for her   I think he is the most infernal lazy and the most ugly human being I ever met   unless something can be done he certainly will shorten Mothers life by years   I cant express the amount of work that he causes her   and the excitement and worriment he causes her every moment of her life I told Mother last night that if he could be boarded, somewhere that I would take her, that she should have a good room to herself and that Mat and I would do and provide for her in all respects as long as she lived and that she need not do another thing in the way of work, except for her amusement besides I would pay part of Ed's board  She seemed to feel that if it could be done she would like it much   I sincerely wish that some arrangement could be made   for I greatly fear that Mother will not live long if she has to go on in this way   Walt wont you think over the matter and write me what you think could be done in the matter    If it wouldnt be too much trouble I wish you would write a letter to the young ones that sent you the money through Lane2   they are all awfully disappointed   they are all little girls of 8 and 12 years old (some even younger) and have been speculating what they should do with the letter   which one it would be directed to &c   at last they settled it by agreeing that each one should have the letter for a week at a time in regular order   they have called to see Mr Lane several times to see if it had been received   They of course are too young to know that the great point was to give it and of course look for the praise that is usually bestowed. Did Lane explain to you that they were the children of the people that sent you money last winter a year ago   Durkee's, Crany, Lanes &c &c3  they remembered hearing your letters read to their fathers and mothers, and heard a great deal of talk about the great good you could do with even a few dollars  This fair they got up entirely among themselves and resolved in solumn conclave (after voting down resolutions to give to the Sanitary Com. Christian Com, &c &c) to send the money to you to be spent &c  Mattie and the children are very well   I am writing this at the office with Hattie at my side   she wants to send a kiss to Uncle Walt We do not hear from George  I wonder why he don't write   I wish he would   Mother gets very down hearted   and a letter cheers her up wonderfully   you must write her as often as you can too    all send their love affectionately Jeff"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/med.00312.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to John Swinton ( ? ) ,","Jun 9, 1865",0.270229838161,"  Washington |  June 9, 1865.  My dear friend, The Homer2 has come & is now lying before me. I thank you deeply. I am very well, this summer, & go to the Hospitals daily & nightly   as I find a greater proportion of sad cases than ever   & for some reason or other there are few or no visitors. I enjoy my visits with a sad but profound joy & satisfaction   especially at night, when the light is nearly turned off, & I am soothing some suffering one. I send you, same mail with this, two copies of the little book Drum-Taps. Farewell. Walt Whitman3 "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00842.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to N. M. and John B. Pratt ,","Jun 10, 1865",0.270365837073,"  Washington |  June 10, 1865.  Mr. & Mrs. Pratt: As I am visiting your son Alfred occasionally, to cheer him up in his sickness in hospital, I thought you might like a few words, though from a stranger, yet a friend to your boy. I was there last night, and sat a while by the bed, as usual, & he showed me the letter he had just received from home. He wrote to you yesterday. He has had diarrhea pretty bad, but is now improved & goes about the hospital   but as the weather is pretty hot & powerful in the midst of the day, I advised him not to go outdoors much at present. What he wants most is rest, and a chance to get his strength again. I expect he will improve by degrees, & I hope it will not be very long before he will be sent home   though I don't know, as I am only a friend, occasionally visiting the hospitals. Alfred has good accommodations where he is, & a good doctor, & nursing   so you must not worry about him. I shall stop & see him a little every day, as he likes to have me, & I like him too. Poor young men, there are hundreds & thousands of them here, wounded or sick, in the great army hospitals   many of them suffering with amputations & wounds   others with sickness, & so faint & weak, this weather   it is enough to make one's heart bleed    As to Alfred, he is comparatively well off, there are so many with bad wounds &c.   the deaths are quite frequent. He will soon be restored, according to present appearances. We are having very hot weather here, & it is dry & dusty   The City is alive with soldiers from both the Army of the Potomac & the Western Armies, brought here by Sherman. There have been some great Reviews here, as you have seen in the papers   & thousands of soldiers are going home every day. You must write to Alfred often, as it cheers up a boy sick & away from home. Write all about domestic & farm incidents, and as cheerful as may be. Direct to him, in Ward C, Armory Square Hospital, Washington, D. C. Should any thing occur, I will write you again, but I feel confident he will continue doing well. For the present farewell. Walt WhitmanWashington | D C "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00179.html," Letter from Jesse Mullery to Walt Whitman ,","Jun 11, 1865",0.270501835985,"   Dear Friend I have been looking for you to visit me ever since we have been in camp here but I guess you are not coming so I have concluded to write you a short note to let you know that I am in good health and good spirits. I attended the Review the other day on purpos to see you, but I failed and I now fear you are not in Washington or I think I would have seen you. I wish you would come and see me if you can, I expect to go home soon. I think our Regiment will be in Washington the later part of this week or the first of next week and then I shall try to see you. If you see Miss H[oward]2 please tell her I am sorry she did not call at my company the evening she was at the Regt. I heard from her in a short time after she had gone, but then it was to late. I am sorry that I did not see her and I hope I may have the pleasure of seeing you before I leave Washington. Hoping to hear from you soon I will close for to day, Yours Truly, "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00881.html," Letter from Kate Richardson to Walt Whitman ,","Jun 18, 1865",0.271453828369,"  Cambridgeport Mass. June 18 /65  Dear Sir, You will be surprised perhaps to receive a note from one whose name even you do not know, but I have long had you down in my heart as one of my friends, and will tell you all about how I came to write to you now. Some time ago, Mrs. J. T. Trowbridge1     who is a friend of yours too, I believe     gave me ""Leaves of Grass"" to read, and told me about you, and since then, I have never thought of you as a stranger. Last week I had a letter from my friend Miss M. E. Rice who is helping nurse the wounded soldiers in Armory Square Hospital. She told me you were often in the Hospital, and so today, after writing to her, I couldn't help keeping on, and enclosing a little note for you. But you mustn't think I wholly like your book. Often when I am reading it I take the words right home to my heart, and feel stronger and better for them, but sometimes, I am a little angry, and wish I had you by my side that I might tell you what I think and hear what you had to say in self-defense. But that [only?] as we sometimes disagree with those we love best, you know, and I shouldn't be writing to you now if somehow or other the ""Leaves of Grass"" hadn't woven themselves into so fresh a garland in my mind as to make me wish to thank you for them. Now that the war is over, and peace is fast coming out of disorder and conflict, and there will be fewer sick and wounded soldiers to claim your time and care, I hope you will find new and still more beautiful ""Leaves,"" for those of us who recognize and love their truth and beauty. In the meantime, don't be offended at the liberty I have taken in sending you this note. I am passionately fond of beauty in all its manifestations, but whoever gives me beautiful thoughts, is my friend forever, though I may never see his face, and this must be my excuse now. I hardly dare ask you, to send me a reply because I know, how fully your time must be occupied, but it would be very pleasant to have a few lines from you. Let that be just as you wish however, and believe me,   Very truly yours Kate Richardson  Walt Whitman Esq.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00858.html," Letter from Nicholas D. Palmer to Walt Whitman ,","Jun 24, 1865",0.272269821841,"  Camp Near Louisville June 24th, 1865  Mr. Whitman Dear [Friend?] I concluded I would talk a few words to you through this instrument.  I am well and hope the safe arrival of this may find you the same.  There is not much talk of the[Vetterans?] getting out yet: if you have any thing in the way of advice to give concerning my imployment when I am Discharged[illegible] talk plain to me Mr. Whitman.  I have been [about?] the world more perhaps  than you would imagine there are a [great many?] [illegible] [cruel turns?] and there[] a variety of ways of making a liveing.  Leaving hard work out of the Books, and I have thought that [illegible] were bigger fools than me making a living very Easy although I admit my Education is Limited.  Name any thing you Please and if I Do not Propose to accept: that is as far as it will Go I will blow on no one.  What about Such houses as we were talking about and [illegible] if it Should be made agreeable for me to take up Lodgeing in Close Proximity with yours. I Should be Pleased in the Superlative Degree.  Please write amediately after you receive this and Give me Some advice No matter what sort.  I conclude. Hopeing to hear from you soon.  Until then.  I remain your Friend as Ever Nicholas D. Palmer Co. E. 80th Regt. 0.1.1.[illegible] 1st Brig 2nd Division 15th A[illegible]  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00222.html," Letter from James Harlan to Walt Whitman ,","Jun 30, 1865",0.273085815313,"  Department of the Interior, Washington, D. C., June 30th, 1865.  The services of Walter Whitman of New York as a Clerk in the Indian Office will be dispensed with from and after this date.  James Harlan,  Secretary of the Interior.1  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00367.html," Letter from George Washington Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Jul 14, 1865",0.274989800082,"  Camp of 51st Regt.  N. Y. Volsnear Alexandria Va   July 14th/65 Dear Brother, I returned to the Regt last night (I have been away on Court Martial you know) and found your letter of July 5th and Mothers, and Hannahs, that you sent me at the same time. Poor Hann I feel quite worried about her and have just written to her saying that Mother and I will come on to see her in the cours of three of four weeks.2 Walt I suppose you know that we are going to be Mustered out of service,  we are making out the Muster Rolls now, and we expect to be in New York in about 10 days.3 I have been over to Washington two or three times since I saw you, but it was always in the afternoon (after C.M. hours) so that I could not get up to your place in time to see you. Walt come over and see us,  the stage leaves Willards twice every day, and brings you right to Camp, so jump in and come over.4 I have written to Mother to day to let her know that I am coming home, and telling her to get ready for a trip to Vermont. I am sleepy so good night Walt. G. W. W. The trouble about the informality of Muster is all right "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00440.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Jul 16, 1865",0.275261797906,"  Brooklyn, N. Y., July 16th 1865 My dear brother We duly received your letter1   We of course all felt very indignant at the way you had been treated   but2 when I came to the statement that Harlan was a parson3 of course his conduct was to be expected  From that class you can never get anything but lying and meanness   I hope you do not allow it to have any effect on you  you must not   The poor mean-minded man   If Christ came to earth again and did'nt behave different from what he did when he was here he would have a mighty poor show with Harlan would'nt he    The most outrageous thing was published in the Eagle4  If you have any curiosity abt it I will send it to you  It was perfectly in keeping with the paper and I'v no doubt was considered a very good thing by little Van5    I see by the papers that the 51st will probably be mustered out in a few days6  How does George feel about it7 I wonder   I still think if he wishes he could get in the regular army    Mother had yesterday a letter from Heyde   10 pages   of the most disgusting trash8   the vilest and meanest things that he could get together  He says he shall leave Han, and go out west9   I wish he was in Hell   Mother of course is considerably exercised about it   and thinks she will go on there and bring Han home   thinks she will go next week  Of course it is foolish for Mother to attempt any thing of the kind and I dont mean to let her go   I am in hopes that George will get home next week and then he could go   I am sure that Mother would never live to get there and back let alone bringing Han   I read Heyds letter through and it is plain to me that they have had a quarrel abt some women that Heyde had in his room   they had a big row and Heyde has written to mother while the thing was fresh in his cussed head10   I suppose mother will get another letter soon rather taking the edge of[f] of this one   I've no doubt that Han has a most outrageous existance   and that she had better leave Heyde but I certainly dont think that Mother   old as she is can think of going there   she can hardly move in the morning till she gets some coffee with Mat   You must write her that she had better not go till George comes home and he can go with her   or something of that kind   dont fail to write mother    Everything is going as usual with me   all keep about the same  Mattie and the children are well  the baby is a little down just now   but I guess she will be all right again in a few days   My friend Davis11 has got back from Peru   he spent 3 or 4 days with me last week    Write to me Jeff"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/yal.00091.html," Letter from William Stewart to Walt Whitman ,","Jul 17, 1865",0.275397796818,"   Mr. Walter Whitman    Sir i take my pen in hand to let you know that i am well and i hope that these few lines may find you the same  i have not got a way yet from this hospittle but i think that my papers will be down tomorrow  i think that they will get away this week  i think that i have been here long enough now mister whitman tel me what is the matter that you dont come to see me anymore i hope that dont keep you away what the ward master told you that night i did not think to ask you to come back  Now if you have any lasure time, come and see me before i go home. i am sorry that i did not think to tell you to not mind what he told you  Well i must [close] My letter by bidding you good by write soon   armory Square hospittle   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00223.html," Letter from A. Van Rensellaer to Walt Whitman ,","Jul 30, 1865",0.277165782674,"  New York, July 30, 1865.  Dear Sir, Looking over a file of papers in the reading room I saw a paragraph about your                     dismissal from the Interior Department, and as I once read your book, I am moved                     to express my feelings in the matter. The act strikes me as pretty mean but                     quite of a piece with Harlan's1 character. As I                     see you are in the Atty Gen'l's office I will call on you when I come to W. in a                     few days and tell you in confidence a little transaction                     I once had with Harlan, long time ago, which will show you what kind of chap he                     is. I read your book when it first came out and though I must admit a good deal                     of it was blind to me, I saw considerable which struck me as first class, though                     I don't pretend to much judgment in such matters. Anyhow I didn't see anything                     worse in what Harlan makes so much of than what is in old Bill Shakespeare and                     the Bible, and dashed in pretty thick too. Some folks are more squeamish than                     me, though.   Perhaps you might like to hear something Mr. Lincoln once said                     of you, which you probably never heard of. It wasn't much to say, but the way he                     said it struck me a good deal. It was in the winter time, I think in '64 I went                     up to the White House with a friend of mine, an M. C., who had some business                     with the President. He had gone out, so we didn't stop, but coming down stairs,                     quite near the door we met the President coming in and we stept back into the                     East Room and stood near the front windows, where my friends had a confab with                     him. It didn't last more than three or four minutes, but there was something                     about a letter which my friend had handed the President, and Mr Lincoln had read                     it and was holding it in his hand like one thinking it over, and looking out of                     the window when you went by, quite slow, with your hands in the breastpockets of                     your overcoat and a sizeable felt hat on your head pretty well up, just as I                     have often seen you on Broadway. Mr. Lincoln asked who you were, or something                     like that. I spoke up and said, mentioning your name and that you had written                     ""Leaves of Grass,"" etc. Mr. Lincoln didn't say anything but took a good long                     look till you were quite gone by. Then he says   (I cant give you his way of                     saying it, but it was quite emphatic, and odd), ""Well,"" he says, ""he looks like a man."" He said it                     pretty loud but in a sort of absent way and with the emphasis on the words I                     have underscored. He didn't say any more but began to talk again about the                     letter and in a minute or so, we went off. Seeing your name just now in the                     paper put me in mind of it it and I thought it was an item you might like to                     know. It was the only time I spoke to Mr. Lincoln though I saw him often. I expect to be in Washington on my way down South in a few days and will take the                     freedom of giving you a call. Please don't mention my name in connection with what I write about Harlan. I'll explain why                     when I see you and you will see the reason for not spreading it round.                      With respect, &c., truly yours,                     A. Van Rensallaer.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/pri.00023.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Anson Ryder , Jr. ,","Aug 1, 1865",0.277437780498,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington Aug. 15, 1865  Dear Anson, As there is a sort of lull and quiet for a short time in my work, I will improve the opportunity to write to you, dear friend.1 In this office, I am in the part where the Pardons are attended to. There is a perfect stream of Rebels coming in here all the time to get pardoned. All the Southerners that are worth more than $20,000 in property, have to get special pardons, & all who have been officers of the rank of Brig. Gen'l, or upwards, the same. Many old men come in here, and middle-aged & young ones too. I often talk with them. There are some real characters among them   (& you know I have a fancy for any thing a little out of the usual style)    Quite a good many women come up to Washington, & come to this office, about their pardons   some old, some young   all are drest in deep black. Then there are bushels of applications arriving every week by mail. When they are recommended by the Provisional Governors, or some well known Union person, they get their papers   Many have got their papers   but nearly all are waiting for the President's signature   I should think 3 or 4 000. He is n't in any hurry to sign them. I was down at Armory Square Sunday. Dr. Smith said he had rec'd a letter from you, & was just going to answer it.2 I went awhile in Ward I, among the rebels   they are in a wretched condition, & nobody goes among them. I shall go in & see Hiram in a day or so. I am in good health, & generally have easy times   As half the force of clerks here are off on leave, I some days have a pressure   & that is the case lately. But I shall be careful to make it up. We have pleasanter weather here the last ten days   quite cool mornings & nights. My dear friend; I am sorry you could not have been with me for a day or two before you left Washington, as it may be we shall not meet again. But you must not forget me, for I shall not you. Write to me from time to time, Anson, & I will you too. The picture you shall have   As I am writing this at the office, otherwise I would enclose one of the card photographs in it   they are up at my room   I will send one in my next.3 Write how your leg is   Give my best remembrances to Wood   he is a good man & I hope he will prosper through life   When you write, direct to me, Attorney General's Office, Washington, D. C. Blue coats here are getting quite scarce. Your letter of 9th came safe, & was welcome. I envy you the pure fresh country air & healthy influences, & I doubt not, fine scenery & quiet. When you write tell me  Walt Whitman   Wednesday morning, 16th Aug.  Anson, as I neglected to send this yesterday, I have brought down a couple of little pictures & enclose them, after all. But you shall have a larger & better one, dear son,   I will have it prepared & fix some way to send it to you. They have commenced breaking up Armory Square. The picture in shirt sleeves was taken in 1854   You would not know it was me now, but it was taken from life & was first-rate then. Anson, when you write tell me all particulars of yourself, folk's place & about Wood, &c.  Your true friend, Walt Whitman  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00606.html," Letter from Alfred Pratt to Walt Whitman ,","Aug 7, 1865",0.27825377397,"   Walt Whitman Dear Friend I am now at my own home but hav not got my discharge yet. I left Washington on trans furr to rochester. I have to go back to rochester to get my discharge. the day that I left thare went to the patent ofice to see you but you was not thare. and I had not time to go whare you was but, went back to Ward C and gave to no. 6 thare in the ward 70 cts to give to you he said that he would let you have it the first time that you come in. now pleas rite and let me know if you got it. I wanted to see you I would like to no if you got that money anyhow. I got home two weeks ago last friday. but I find myself rather weak yet  last friday I was on a lode of hay and went to down of from it and I fell and scard the horses one of them kicked me on the forehead and then they start to run and the wagon wheel struck me on the back of my head and hurt me bad but can sit up now. I think of no more at present. Pleas rite if you get this address.   My friends their respects Please if get this rite and if you will Please to sennd me that potographs of Abe and Washington like yours if you can find them I will pay you for it.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00607.html," Letter from Anson Ryder Jr. to Walt Whitman ,","Aug 9, 1865",0.278525771794,"   Friend W, I feel as though I ought to apologize to you for leaving Washington in the manner I did but I had so very little time to spare I did not have time to say good by to anybody scarcely but do not think for a moment that I forgot you then or now. Wood is with [me] here at my old home says it is not very natural here does not seem at all like an hospital. The weather here is splendid so cool and nice and real pure country air. I wish you could see us and be with us for a time. I think it would do you good. And now I must ask you about that photograph you promised me so long ago. I have never seen it yet, please do not let me have occasion to doubt your word though I think you agred to write me if I wrote you if you cannot (but I hope you can) please let Fraser have one for me and he will send it for I have written him.2   Please excuse haste, Yours with much love,  Anson Ryder, Jun.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/yal.00092.html," Letter from William F. Bainbridge to Walt Whitman ,","Aug 23, 1865",0.280429756562," My Dear & Esteemed Freind I take the present opporutnity to write you these few lines to inform you that i am well and in good health at Present time and i truly hope when these few lines reach you that they may find you enjoying good health. i answered your last letter1 and not having recivd any answer i think it very Strange i recived these two pictures and give one to wilson,2 and kept one my self and i was very glad to recive them for i would rather see your face than your picture at all wilson wrote the same time that i did and not having Recived any answer and wilson says he can not think What the reason is that he does not get and answer from you. Me and wilson expecty to come through there this fall and we will come and see you if ever you have the opportunity of calling around richmond please to call around Camp Grant and see us. please excuse this Short Letter Write soon good by I remain your Freind   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00608.html," Letter from Anson Ryder , Jr to Walt Whitman ,","Aug 25, 1865",0.280701754386," My Dear Uncle W, Your very kind letter of the 16th was duly received and appreciated to the best of my ability. We had a grand reception at our place last week for this town and two adjoining ones which was quite a success for a country place like this. I presume there can be more costly ones got up in New York and other cities and perhaps better music and shaking but for a right down good place for a peson to enjoy themselves and get enough to eat and of that which is eatable give me Cedar Lake or any other Lake in preference to any city. One of our lady neighbors who is fond of a good joke cooked a coon that was caught trespassing in a corn field it looked very nicely I tell you and was soon pretty well demolished before anyone knew what it was  after a while someone asked what kind of meat it was when the lady very innocently told them it was nothing but a coon  when some of the more fastidious ones made up awful faces as though they had a very bad feeling at the stomach but I did not believe it went below the chin. I have shown your Pho[tograph] only in the family and they all think it must belong to a kind old man but when I tell them the age of the original (why does it not seem possible but [they] are glad that I found one friend in the hospital  I am gaining strength very fast. I walk a little with one crutch and cane. Mr Wood is with me yet and improving in health and flesh. I do not know whether there are any characters among my neighbors that would interest you particular or not they are like most of our country people kindly and well meaning  I see by the paper that Armory Squre is discontinued and the patients are removed to Douglass Hospital. I received a letter each from Fraser and Dr. Smith.2 Are you personally or were you rather acquainted with Henry Thoreau? I saw in some extracts of Thoreau's letters a few days since a sort of discription of yourself, and so I supposed you must have met him. I sent the paper by Fraser several days ago. I have not been far enough away from home since I came here to get any photographs but expect to in a few weeks when I shall not forget to whom I am indebted for like favors. Remember me with kindness to any whom you may meet that remembers me. And please write me how Hiram is getting along for I feel much interest in his welfare.3   Please excuse all errors and mistakes of your most affectionate friend,  Anson Ryder, Jr.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00843.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Alfred Pratt ,","Aug 26, 1865",0.280837753298,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington,  Aug. 26, 1865.  Dear Al, Your letter came all right   & I was glad to hear from you, boy, & to know that you had got home to your own folks at last   & now I hope you will get well & strong again, dear son   & I hope it may be God's will that you will not only get so, but keep so.2 Armory Square hospital is broken up, & all the sick & wounded have been taken away, or forwarded home. I have not seen No. 6. in Ward C. that you speak of, but shall no doubt meet him soon, & that little matter is all right any how.3 Al, you was quite low, one time there in the Hospital   & the worst of it was you was down-hearted & homesick, & said nothing to any body   only when I came around, & we soon had quite a love toward each other, & no doubt that did you good   only I now regret that I did not do more for you, & come to see you oftener. I am working now in the Attorney General's office. This is the place where the big southerners now come up to get pardoned   all the rich men & big officers of the reb army have to get special pardons, before they can buy or sell, or do any thing that will stand law   Sometimes there is a steady stream of them coming in here   old & young, men & women   some of the men are odd looking characters   I talk with them often, & find it very interesting to listen to their descriptions of things that have happened down south, & to how things are there now, &c. There are between 4 & 5000 pardons issued from this Office, but only about 200 have been signed by the President   The rest he is letting wait, till he gets good & ready   What I hear & see about Andrew Johnson, I think he is a good man   sometimes some of the letters he gets are sent over to this office to be answered   & occasionally that job falls to me   One of them was a letter a few days ago from a widow woman in Westfield, N Y. Her husband was in Texas when the war broke out, joined our army   & was killed by the rebels   they also confiscated his property in Texas, leaving his family helpless   this lady wrote to the President for aid, &c   I wrote the President's answer   telling her that she should have her husband's pension, which would be pretty good, as he was a captain   & that the rebs in Texas could not hold any such property, but that she could bring a suit & get it back, &c.   then put in a few words to cheer her up, &c.     Aug 29.  Dear son, I did not finish my letter because I have not been able to get the little picture of Lincoln & Washington4   but I succeeded in getting one this morning   I send it as a little present to my dear boy, & I hope it will please him, for there is something about it that is both pleasing & solemn to me, though but a small picture   We are having a cloudy drizzly day here & heavy mist   There is nothing very new or special   There was a big match played here yesterday between two base ball clubs, one from Philadelphia & the other a Washington club   & to-day another is to come off between a New York & the Philadelphia club I believe   thousands go to see them play5    I keep well, & every body says I am getting fat & hearty   I live at the same place in M street, 468   only I have moved into the front room   it is pleasanter   I have my meals brought up to me   my landlady gives me very good grub, $32.50 a month   Well I must draw to a close, as the sheet is most full   When you write, to let me know how you are, & if you have rec'd this, direct to me, Attorney General's office, Washington D. C. Now, Ally, I must bid you good by, & I send you my love, my darling boy, & also to your parents, for your sake   you must try to be a good young man & behave right & manly, for that is far more than worldly prosperity   Farewell, dear son, Walt Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/sjs.00001.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Byron Sutherland ,","Aug 26, 1865",0.280837753298,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington,  Aug 26, 1865.  Dear friend, Your letter from Dewittville came safe, about nine days ago   & I have been expecting to hear from you since. Byron, I am still here, and as far as appears at present am likely to remain employed here, through the fall   but may ask for leave of absence for two or three weeks before long. There is a great stream of Southerners comes in here day after day, to get pardoned1   All the rich, and all high officers of the rebel army cannot do any thing, cannot buy or sell, &c. until they have special pardons   (that is hitting them where they live)   so they all send or come up here in squads, old & young, men & women    They come to this office to get them   sometimes the rooms are filled with a curious gathering   I talk with them frequently, listen to their stories, descriptions, opinions &c. &c   As you know, almost every thing of that sort (& especially all odd characters) are interesting to me   Some 4 or 5000 pardons have been passed through here   but the President hasn't signed more than 200   The rest are all blank yet   Andy Johnson seems disposed to be in no hurry about it   What I learn & know about him (the President), I think he is a good man.2 Byron, there is nothing new or special with me. I have changed my back room to the front room, & have my meals sent up by the landlady   She gives me very good grub, & I like it, both room & board, ($32.50 a month)   The last ten or twelve days here have been very pleasant & sufficiently cool   after the melting hot summer   I am writing this in the office, by my big window, looking out on a splendid view across & down the Potomac for several miles, & over into Virginia, along Arlington heights   The trees, grass, river, & sky are splendid. Well, my dear comrade, how are you, & how does it go? You must write & let me hear about you   & I shall want to know also if you get this. I wish it was so we could see each other, & be together once in a while. Well, Byron, I must close. I send you my love, & God bless you, dearest comrade   Write soon, dear son, & give me all particulars.3 Direct | Walt Whitman | Attorney Generals Office | Washington, D. C. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/har.00053.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to John T. Trowbridge ,","Aug 31, 1865",0.281517747858,"  August 31, 1865  I have just [full text TK] "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00609.html," Letter from Byron Sutherland to Walt Whitman ,","Sep 5, 1865",0.282197742418,"   Dear Friend Your letter of Aug 26th reached me in due time.2 I had began to think (allmost) that you had forgotten me. Then I imagined that some press of work had prevented your writing me sooner. Well as for myself (And I have nothing elese to write about) I am at work on a Farm at present. And managing to save $30.00 per month. Considerable leisure time, entertaining Books, good company. My employer is at home but a very small portion of his time. Have enjoyed myself pretty well (Hard times when I cannot) considering that I am Just from so much excitement when compared with this. Have been reading, Our Old Home (by Nathaniel Hawthorne,) Home and Abroad (by B. Taylor) Color Guard (by J. R. Hosmer) all light reading but entertaining, for news I have the Buffalo Express (daily). So you see dear friend that I am pretty well provided for. I should like very much to see you and be with you. Corry is a pretty rough place. Property is very valuable. it is the Junction of three R.R. Atlantic & Great Western, Pa & Erie and Oil Creek. Large Refineries, Saw Mills, Manufactorys are located here and doing a flourishing Business. Lots with the stumps & logs on are sold at the rate of $40.00 per foot. This winter I shall either learn a trade of go to School, I shall be governed by circumstances. The Weather is very warm for this time of the season considerable rain has fallen lately but the weather is quite pleasant nevertheless. Seems to me you are about to leave Washington in its most pleasant season. I was allways delighted with the fall of the year in that climate. Dont have any good pictures here. People are thinking more of money here than of Beauty. Sometimes I have disputes with the detested Copperheads. I treat them rather uncivilly. Havent any special regard for them. I hope you will write me a long letter. Your letter was very interesting to me   very valuable. Well Good Old Friend I must bid you good night.   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00441.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Sep 11, 1865",0.28301373589,"  Brooklyn, N. Y., Sept. 11th 1865 Dear brother Walt    I received your letter last Friday1   I should have sent the bundle before but Mother told me that you said you was coming home2 and we have been expecting to see you all the last week  Mother left last Monday   we had a letter from her the next Wednesday   she arrived all right   found Han better than she expected she says3  I have been suffering since Friday with a ""run-around"" on my middle finger  I have been unable to do anything for the last three days   and seems to me I never suffered so much pain before in so short a time   I send the bundle this morning by Wescotts express   you must forgive me for not attending to it before   I should have done so had not Mother told me you was coming home  And Walt why dont you come home  we would be glad to see you and I think you would enjoy a visit home just now   come and make us a visit   George has started in his building business4   he is in hopes of getting a pretty large job in New York   will know to-day   Mr Lane5 offered him a first rate berth   he thought at first he would take it but afterwards declined   perhaps he did better in going on with his venture    Everything is going the same all rosey   we hope you will come on and see us   I am in a great hurry this morning   or would write longer affectionately Jeff"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00866.html," Letter from Abraham Simpson to Walt Whitman ,","Sep 20, 1865",0.284237726098,"  Sept 20th, 1865    Walt Whitman Esq When I  receive your extra sheet will then bind you 500 ""Drum Taps."" Can you give me an [order on any person?] for a copy of your ""Drum Taps"" as I want[to?] match them. As I have to pay nett cash for the materials used in your work would thank you to forward me the money.  Respectfully, Abraham Simpson  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00442.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Sep 29, 1865",0.285461716306,"  Brooklyn, N. Y., Sept. 29th 1865 Dear brother Walt We hav'nt heard from you for some time1   you say the bundle was not the right one   I read the label and thought it read the same as you described in your letter   would you like me to send the other or right one if I can find it   Mother told me she knew the one you meant and that she would put it on the table for me2   that is the one I sent We had a letter from Mother to-day   she seems pretty well   talks a little of coming home but does not say when   I have just written her this eve   We are all as well as usual   the baby has a bad boil on its forehead but I suppose it will get well in a day or two and then she will be all right again   it looks just now though about as bad as anything of the kind I ever saw  by-the-way it was me that had the ""run around"" on the finger3   and I have just got well of it   and a cussed bad time I had of it too   it accounts for my not writing you before    George is getting along first rate I guess   He dont say any more about getting a position in the Custom House   I hope he wont try but I am quite sure that if he can keep devoted to his present undertaking he will make a handsome fortune in 8 or ten years4   he certainly has the prospect of it   there is an immense amount of building in the city this season   though material is wonderful high   brick $12 per thousand   should be abt 5 or 6   I have given up all thought of building this fall   at one time I thought I would sure  perhaps next spring will be better Matters about Brooklyn are much the same   with me just the same   Mr Kirkwood5 has been on a visit to Brooklyn and just gone back to St. Louis   I think it more than likely that he will build the water works of that city   if so it will be as large a job as the Brooklyn works The Doctor6 returned from the country last week   he looks first rate   says he had a wonderfully good time   he was spending the summer up in Vermont near Burlington   speaks of it as being a splendid place to live    In her letter to-day Mother says she wants either you or George to come on and come home with her7   so I suppose she begins to think of coming home Mattie and the children desire to send their love to you   the child[ren] are growing first rate    I wish you would write me  I want to know how things are going with you affectionately Jeff"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00200.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Oct 12, 1865",0.287229702162,"  Brooklyn, |  October 12, 1865.2  My dear Nelly,3 I sit down home here in the front basement alone to write you a few lines. Mother is still at Burlington,4 & I am waiting to hear from her, what she decides, about coming home   I shall probably go for her very shortly. I find it makes a mighty difference in my visit   (What is home without   &c)    My dear little California is sick   infantile remittent fever   for the past week has just been lying quiet & pale, eats literally nothing   it is pitiful, & throws a gloom over every thing   doctor comes every day, & sometimes twice a day   when I ask him about the chances, he is rather noncommittal   saying the disease in such a case as hers is expected to run fourteen days, before a turn for either better or worse   the fourteen days are up next Sunday   meanwhile she grows weaker & weaker    I am middling well   My brother George has resumed carpentering5   he is well, & looks fine   I see him every day   the rest of the folks all well. I send my love to Charles Eldridge   same to Ashton   when you write tell me the latest from the baby & Mrs. Ashton. Send William the enclosed piece6   it is one of those I spoke of   When you write direct to me, Portland av. near Myrtle. Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/med.00313.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Byron Sutherland ,","Oct 15, 1865",0.287637698898,"  Brooklyn,  October 15, 1865.  Dear Friend: I write you a few lines to let you know that I have come home on a month's furlough   there is nothing very new or special with me. I am still employed in the Attorney Gen'l's office, & shall return there before the middle of next month. I often think about you, & wish it was so we could have each others society frequently   Byron,2 I don't know certain whether I have written to you since I rec'd your last letter or not   but it came safe, & was glad to hear from you   write soon, my dear comrade, & direct your letter to me, Portland Av. near Myrtle, Brooklyn, New York.3 Soon as I get back to Washington, I will send you word. Here in this place & New York, I go around quite a good deal   it is a great excitement to go around the busiest parts of New York, Broadway, & the wharves, & great ferries   The oceans of people, the trucks & omnibuses, go all jammed together, & such bustle & noise   I like it much for a few hours now and then   but don't want to be continually in it   I have made an addition to the little book ""Drum Taps,""4 & will send you one of the perfect copies soon   we had a fine long pouring rain here all last night   I am writing this home at my mother's, in the front basement sitting by the stove, as the weather is cool   Mother is absent at Burlington, Vt, but returns to-morrow   the others have gone to church, etc   so I am entirely alone to-day   so I thought I couldn't do better than write to you. Dear comrade, I hope you are well & doing well   write soon, boy   from your loving friend and comrade    Walt Whitman. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00948.html," Letter from Ellen M. O'Connor to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 17, 1865",0.287909696722,"  Washington. Oct. 17/65. Tuesday.  Dear Walt, I was very glad to hear from you. The letter came promptly last Friday with one from Wm. & I wrote him yesterday, & sent the book review. I think it is an admirable criticism, almost the best of Leaves of Grass that I have ever seen. William tells me that in the letter Curtis promises to do all he can, & is very much interested, but most likely he has written you all about it.2 How comes on Drum Taps? How is the little girl? I was more pained than I can tell you to learn that she was ill, and with one of those dreadful fevers. The poor little thing! Isn't it s pitiful thing to see a child sick? To me far more appealing than the sickness of a grown person. The critical time was Sunday last you said, now it is Tuesday, I hope she is better. Try to send me a line to say how she is. I am sorry for your sake, dear Walt, that your mother is away. I know how you would miss her. But perhaps by this time you have gone for her. I hope you will go, & will have a pleasant journey and visit. I have delayed writing that I might give you the latest news of Mrs. Ashton & baby, but Charley went in there & Ashton had gone home to see them.3 Speed had returned, I think he was gone for a week. Mr. Pleasants said they were well when Ashton left for Philadelphia.4 We miss you and William immensely, Charley & I speak of you daily. Miss Howard's sister Sallie is very sick, I think typhoid fever, & I have been out to-day trying to get a nurse for her.5 So far Garaphelia has taken care of her night & day, & she looks worn out. We are well, so is Charley. Jeannie sends love. She was very sorry & sympathizing about little California. I trust the little thing is better. My sister Jeannie's little Mary is very sick with typhoid fever too, but they hope not dangerously so. We shall be glad to welcome you back, but while you are away I hope you will have a good time, & get very well. Good by.  With love always Nelly.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.01819.html," Letter from William D. O'Connor to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 19, 1865",0.288181694546,"  New Ipswich, New Hampshire, October 19, 1865.  My dear Walt: The article1 you sent Nelly2 from the London Leader is in my possession. Good! I shall incorporate it. Part of it is very fine. I wonder if young William Allingham wrote it?3 The Leader is the paper he is on. He is a poet, you remember   one of the most promising of the young British choir. He is an Irishman and a reverent lover of Emerson's genius. I shouldn't wonder if he wrote this critique. Anyhow it's good and I shall put a great deal of it in. If, ever since I have been here, I have not had the worst cold I ever had in my life   a cold which has made me really sick and spoiled the pleasure of my visit   I should doubtless have ere this sent off the MS. to Curtis.4 It will probably go soon. It is just as well and even better than I have delayed it, for in the first place it will be enriched with this quotation, and besides you will like it better by the excision of nearly all the personality, new light having come to me on this point as time has passed and the sweet country air and relief from labor cleared and refreshed my poor boiled brains. On my way through New York I enquired at Harper's for Curtis and found he was out of town. So I brought the MS. with me up here. Then came Curtis' answer; of which I send you a copy that you may see how true the reply this splended gentleman and noble heart sends back to my call. I really did not expect so much from Curtis. I relied on his literary chivalry, but did not look for the rest. As George would say, he has ""elements""! I have written to him saying that I want him to endeavor to find me a publisher and mentioning Hurd and Houghton: also saying that in a few days I shall send him the MS. I wish you could come up here. The landscape is exquisite. Fields, farms, the quiet rustic town, the gorgeous foliage, the Temple and Peterboro hills enclosing all. And then, drive out a few miles and lo! Monadnoc! O Walt, what a sight! A purple breadth of mountain, spreading calm in sleepy light and filling the landscape with grandeur. It is the finest mountain I have seen. Its characteristic is breadth. I am staying here at the house of Miss Jenny Bullard, a friend of whom I believe I have spoken to you.5 I wish you knew her. You would like her. She is handsome, bountiful, generous, cordial, strong, careless, laughing, large, regardless of dress or personal appearance, and appreciates and likes Leaves of Grass. The first thing she read in the book was Enfans d'Adam, which she cordially liked and wondered how anyone could mistake its atmosphere and purport. She is a very particular friend of mine. I wish you knew her. She told me today that she wanted me to invite you to come up here for a few days before I go, but I said I wouldn't because I knew you wouldn't come. I shall probably leave here about the twenty-fifth and go to Boston. Then home. Spite of dear friends and respite from the treadmill and the superb scenery, I have had considerably of a bad time, chiefly owing to the horrible cold I have had and the weary state I have been in. But I am better now and the world looks brighter. Now I hope to be able to announce to you that the MS. has a publisher. But oh, Walt, the literary shortcomings of it oppress me. It is not the thing that should be said of your book   not the thing that it is in even me to say   as I feel. However. Good bye. I will write you again.  Your faithful W. D. O'Connor.   Ashfield, Mass. 30 Sept. 1865.  My dear O'Connor: Here, up among the Autumn Hills, I get your interesting letter of the 20th and you may be very sure that I will do all I can to redress the wrong of which you speak. The task you undertake is not easy, as you know. The public sympathy will be with the Secretary for removing a man who will be considered an obscene author and a free lover. But your hearty vindication of free letters will not be less welcome to all liberal men. Personally I do not know Whitman; and while his Leaves of Grass impressed me less than it impressed many better men than I, I have never heard anything of him but what was noble nor believed anything of him but what was honorable. That a man should be expelled from office and held up to public contumely, because of an honest book which no candid mind can truly regard as hurtful to public morality, is an offence which demands exposure and censure. I know Carleton but he has several times asked of me favors which I could not grant and I do not believe your offer would be strengthened if made through me.6 If you think otherwise, I shall most cheerfully go to him,   but would it not be better for you to write to him and refer him to me, saying, if you choose, that you had asked me to call upon him? Think of it and let me know. It was very pleasant to see your comely chirography again, altho' I wish I could think of you as having had some vacation. We have been here for two months, far from railroads, telegraphs, and gossip, and are just going home. My wife returns your friendly remembrance and yours, I hope, has not forgotten me. I should be glad, too, if I thought you felt as cheerfully as I feel at the real gain in the Good Fight made by the war. Andy may Tylerize but the country will not. The wave may be lower, but the tide is rising. Good bye. Let me hear as soon as you will. You know how gladly I shall serve you and how truly I am  Your friend G. W. Curtis.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00201.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Oct 20, 1865",0.288317693458,"  Brooklyn |  October 20 | 1865  Dear friend,2 Your letter came right   & was glad to hear from you, Nelly, & Charles Eldridge & dear little Jeannie   (I will not add William because I did not hear any thing about him.)3 Nelly, the skies are brighter here than when I wrote you last. Little sis is so much better, that she has been twice brought down here to the front basement, & has in every respect improved much since last Saturday   Then my mother arrived home last Tuesday   and now it looks something like home in reality   I am quite well    Drum Taps will be bound (a small edition) before you get this   & will next week be put in the hands of a New York publisher & launched on the market   at least that's my design at present4    When you write tell me all about William   My mother returns bringing cheerful intelligence upon the whole   & is herself in splendid condition   havn't seen her look & apparently feel better in many years   My brother George (or did I tell you?) is working again at his trade & has grand health   Love & Farewell    Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00610.html," Letter from Anson Ryder Jr. to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 22, 1865",0.288589691282," My Dear Friend, Tis a long time since I have had the pleasure of hearing from you so I fear you did not receive the letter I sent on receipt of your photographs quite a good while ago so I will write a short letter again hoping better luck this time. I am getting around quite lively on just a single cane and my health is good. I am quite strong but not very fleshy as you will observe by the enclosed pho[tograph], which you may think was a long time coming I am getting ready to day for a short journey out to Livingston Co. to visit some relatives and freinds so you must be so kind as to excuse this short note. I have not heard from Fraser in a number of weeks but hope you have seen him much oftener. The last time he wrote he was a little better but thought he would be able to leave hospital at the expiration of 1865, but I most earnestly hope he will not be obliged to remain so long. Tis very pleasant to day but pretty cold. I write this not knowing but you may have left the place you were but shall use the envelope which you sent me. I would like much to see you again and have a good visit once more and I pray that we meet sometime. I received a letter from Wood2 a few days since, he is visiting Tommy3 (No. 6) he was quite well and enjoying himself well, said Tommy had a pleasant home and they were having a good time generally. Now good bye, my good freind and may heaven keep you safe from harm. Anson Ryder, Jun.   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/uva.00347.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Andrew Kerr ,","Oct 29, 1865",0.289541683667,"  Brooklyn |  October 29, 1865.  Andy,1 my dear comrade   I rec'd yours of 24th, with enclosure of letter. Two others previously. I am sincerely sorry for Mr. Stewart. Andy, my programme is, to vote here early Tuesday forenoon,2 & then start immediately for Washington   So Love   & farewell   till we meet, dear boy. Walt Whitman (I wish you to say to Mr. Ashton, however, that if there is any pressure in the clerical duties of the Office, I will come immediately, if needed.)  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00949.html," Letter from Ellen M. O'Connor to Walt Whitman ,","Nov 1, 1865",0.289949680403,"  Friday. Nov. 1st 1865.  Dear Walt, Your letter was very welcome, and I have not forgotten you one day, though I have not written you. But I have been very much occupied in thought, as well as much of my time in going daily, & some days twice to see Miss Howard.2 Her sister Sallie has the worst form of typhoid fever. She has been very ill for three weeks, & alarmingly so for over ten days. Her mother was sent for more than a week ago, and two doctors have come twice a day to see her for many days. I don't suppose there is any hope at all. She is wild with delirium all the time. Poor Garrie is worn, but she bears up like a hero under it, does not leave her sister night or day. I got a good nurse for them, as their nurse had to leave. It is very sad, & I have not given up hoping till to-day, but she has no encouraging symptoms. I was so glad to hear that your little pet was better, and that your mother had got home! Has the little girl continued to improve? I hope so. It was good too, to hear that your mother was so well, & George, & all of you. I hope you are all well now. I trust the little girl is picking up fast. You ask about William.3 His letters have been ""few and far between"", four in five weeks,    but now I look a little for him to-morrow, Saturday, and shall surely expect him on Sunday.  I guess he has had a good time, & he sent the MSS. to Curtis.  You may see him in New York to-morrow.  He will see Curtis, I suppose. When you come back what lots of things we shall have to talk about. I saw in the Tribune of Wednesday the advertisement of Drum Taps.  Glad we were to see it, Charley & I. Have you sent one to Emerson?  Do, in haste, won't you?  I   want him to have one right away. Dear Walt, will you see in New York Mr. Howells?4 I don't even know his address, & it is necessary that I should write him a business letter. I wonder how they are. Give him my love if you see him. Jeannie is well, & sends love. I am well, so is Charley, & he too, sends love. We all want to see you back. Mr. Ashton is well, but very busy, & looks worn.5 His wife is well, & I guess they will come soon. Give my love to your mother, & with much love to you - hoping soon to see you.  Yours    Nelly.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00611.html," Letter from Benton H. Wilson to Walt Whitman ,","Nov 11, 1865",0.291309669523," Mr. Whitman, Dear Friend, I suppose you will think that I have forgotten you long before this time but I have not, your kindness to me while in the hospital will never be forgotten by me. I have entirely recovered from my wounds long since and have been at work part of the time and attending commercial school.  I have been at work about six weeks, consequently my hand is not in very good condition for writing. I have been promising myself to write to you ever since I returned home but have failed to keep my promise till now. I intend to go south in about two months and if I come that way I will stop and see you. I would like to know what chance I would have to go into business with a few hundred dollars capital.  If I can not go into anything there, what do you think of my going further south, say to Savannah. I want you when you write to tell me just what you think about it. I do not know as you will be much interested by receiving this letter from me but I would like to hear from you very much.  yours with respect.   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/yal.00097.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to William D. O'Connor , September (",") 0, 1866",0.298109615123," I assume that Poetry in America needs to be entirely recreated. On examining with anything like deep analysis what now prevails in the United States, the whole mass of current poetical works, long and short, consists either of the poetry of an elegantly weak sentimentalism, at bottom nothing but maudlin puerilities, more or less musical in verbiage, arising out of a life of depression and enervation, and producing depression and enervation as their result;   or else that class of poetry, plays, &c, of which the foundation is feudalism, with its ideas of lords and ladies, its imported standards of gentility, and the manners of European high-life-below-stairs in every line and verse. Such to me is the existing condition of poetry; such the product of the poets and poems of the time. To me, nothing can be more utterly contemptible. Instead of mighty and vital breezes, proportionate to our continent, with its powerful races of men, its tremendous historic events, its great oceans, its mountains and its illimitable prairies, I find a few little silly fans languidly moved by shrunken fingers. [My ambition is] to give something to our literature which will be our own; with neither foreign spirit, nor imagery nor form, but adapted to our case, grown out of our associations, boldly portraying the West, strengthening and intensifying the national soul, and finding the entire fountains of its birth and growth in our own country. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00383.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman , October (",") 0, 1866",0.298109615123," . . . not sick with rheumatism or any thing   I see the carpenters in Brooklyn are demanding $4 a day   I was thinking perhaps George & Smith would just take2 . . . Write how George & Smith make out   George, how would it do for you to put up a couple of small houses, to be worth about $2000 a piece, in some good spot, outer part of the city   one of the two for us   & the other for sale   I could raise $800 cash   to leave 1200 on bond & mortgage   some such plan   you & Smith could do much of the work yourselves   I only mention it to see whether it would be practicable. Good bye, dear mother, Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00202.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to William D. O'Connor ,","Jan 25, 1866",0.301509587923,"  TREASURY DEPARTMENT, OFFICE OF THE LIGHT HOUSE BOARD. Washington 1862  May come around & take a cup of tea with you after dinner. Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00387.html," Letter from Charles J. Woodbury to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 21, 1866",0.305181558548,"  Williamstown, Massachusetts February 21, 1866  Walt Whitman, I want to write to you of yourself. It is better to translate you than Epictetus or Marcus Antoninus. To translate you one must be in sympathy with you. I think I am in sympathy with you. I can see that you are a limpid man, a realist, one who looks through all words and shows and bearing into the secret nature with a terrible perception. You look inward, inward at the soul of things. You are terrible for finding a way into the depths. Your poetry is of a new order. You breathe the Modernesque, nothing of the Antique in you. Something flows in your veins warmer than ice-water. Conscientious, earnest, you talk plain words, and command your publisher not to alter a line. Thus, some of your passages seem profane, sometimes blasphemous to the world   you do not hesitate to shock any weather-worn creed or belief. Damn your critics! Hear this what I say    You are a greater Stoic than Xeno or Scævola or Xenophanes, greater, because nothing of impurity clings to you. You are a man whose core and whose breath is conscience, and now I say that not one of these critics (?) not one of the old giants of literature, not one of Europe's best but could come to you and say Peccavi. I have lived twenty-one years and society has just begun with me. You I have found and with you I talk. I am in moods and anxieties, but you elevate me. And when I am above them, and in those grand still moments in which one sees infinite things, even then I find you far above, and out of your experience and helpfulness looking down at me. How long have I been a stranger to this foreign land in which I have wandered   foreign, and yet within my own heart? For when most you talk to me of yourself, then most do you talk to me of myself. Is this not true? Emerson told me to seek you. 'You shall find much of genius there,' said he, in his kind, quaint way; and Thoreau, you know how he speaks of you in his 'Letters.' But Emerson did not say the best thing. I find Genius here, indeed, but so I can find it in Shakespeare, and Mrs. Browning, and in the effete books. But human heartedness, but self-giving, but brave sense, mettle, hard and heavy force, laconic energy, when books swim in loquacious impotence, how shall I seek them elsewhere? All lives beside are comparatively objectless and dull and dreary in the prospect. Amid all shame and falsehood around and in me, in you I ever find clearly acknowledged and outspoken the truth. You are of great practical value. You are a royal fellow. Can I serve you? God damn Sec'y Harlan! One word of myself: I am twenty-one. Twenty-one looked venerable to me six years ago. And, alas, nothing looks venerable to me now. I am pressing the vintage just now for the wine of hell and stammer curses pretty well. I think there was a devil born in me. I have got the dual existence the Germans tell us about, body at night, and mind in the morning, you understand. I am in this village a thousand miles from home, trying to study and write verse. But enough of me. I look at your picture in 'Leaves of Grass.' I fancy you are growing old and (is it but fancy) that you suffer. Will you trust me with one line of yourself. I know you are a poet, older than I, and we are strangers. But if you could see me you would trust me, for I swear there is congruity between us. Your earnest, unique, lyrical words   God bless you for them! I love you. (A friend has defended you with a pamphlet has he not. I endeavor in vain to get it. Will you not tell me where to send.)   Charles Woodbury  Walt Whitman, Vir.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00203.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Ven Velsor Whitman ,","Mar 23, 1866",0.309261525908,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington, March 23 1866  Dearest Mother, I ordered the draft to be paid to you, of course. All you have to do is to go down & present it   they may ask you who you expected money from, & where. I dont know, but I expect Jeff1 or Mat2 would do just as well. Walt. Mr. Lincoln,3 the post master, knows about the letters & money being stolen   the Post office here has conferred with him on the subject.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00204.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Mar 28, 1866",0.309941520468,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington, March 28, 1866  Dearest Mother, Your letter come safe this morning, enclosing Han's1   I was very glad to get both   Mother, I wrote you three letters last week, the second one was in a big envelope, & the last was a small one you ought to have got Saturday   I feel quite unsettled how to send any thing2   the letters seem to be so liable to be stolen   but I shall certainly fix it so as you get something every week, mother, some how   Seems to me George's arrangements, & the buying of the lots, &c. are very good   also the shop   As Jeff says, he must have patience3   Love to Matty & the children   & good bye for present, mother dear, Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00388.html, Letter from Charles L. Heyde to Walt Whitman,"Apr 0, 1866",0.310349517204,"  Burlington April 1866  Walter Whitman Your letter to Han was recd and duly deliverd. She is I think, better than for a long time past. Only one new vargary has originated with her, and that is that I shall go away; rent the house to her, and she will take boarders; there is but one step from this to insanity    Han has an idea that she could accomplish that for 3 or 4 persons, easily, which she has, under no circumstances, done for me, not ten times in as many years. I have just taken up a note against the property: and I think that with reasonable success I may clear it all, by next Spring. But the idea that Han runs the house and I am but the secondary drudge must be dismissd I see but one way to bring this matter into a realizistic shape or condition, and that is, to take her at her word; ""to go away"" and put the place and herself under the guardianship of an attorney. Much of this difficulty has arisen from the miserable teachings of her mother, who enjoined upon her, when we were first married not to perform these little services for me, which naturaly would suggest themselves to a kind and considerate wife, and endear her to her husband: Because I might be spoild, by it. Mrs Whitman has been toward me, a silly old woman   for why I do not know   I never was under obligations to her for anything. If she brought a half loaf of bread to my house, she took butter or tea away in return for it, and I never had a meal at her table that I did not pay for. But Mrs Whitman never did possess a particle of honest frankness   on the contrary, in one instance, I will not her[e] mention, a more than mean, a wicked duplicity toward myself. Perhaps I would not look upon ""Leaves of Grass"" with so much melancholy regard, if I was not experiencing a practical version of it: Irregular   disorderly: indifferent or defiant   the lower animal instincts   no accountability. no moral sense or principle   No true, inherent, practical sympathy for anything; myself; disappointments, or endeavours. Nothing of me, or of the future to arise for me, out of my labour, and progressions. Han has no more moral sense of marriage than an Ethiopian, of the field   Gives herself to a man and nothing more   Your letters and those of her friends shall be allways forwarded to her. I am simply disgusted with so much selfishness     C L Heyde  There is one more change, to the last notion of Han's, and that is ""She"" can go ""home,"" and cook for her mother: ""her mother said so."" She sometimes says that she has no friends. I believe it, since this ""home"" is offrd, in a menial capacity, and the service that is imagined can be extracted from her. My idea was, that, if I did go to Europe, ""to let her board, in the most comfortable manner, and raise herself from ill health and drudgery     "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00868.html," Letter from Charlotte St. Clair to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 6, 1866",0.311165510676,"  1866 South Dover Maine Apr 6th  Mr. Whitman Sir I rec'd a letter from Mr William of Bascom [242 F?] Street stating that our testimony did not [agree?] with the company rolls in regard to my son Henry F Doore's death, he and Clarence F belonged to the 31 Maine Co. H. J. S. Harlow was their Capt. he was mortally wounded the 30th of Sept. 1864 the same day that Henry was there were only thirteen of that company that went into the charge only five came out.  I don't know as there was any officer higher than a corporal left that was then with them, they had four days fighting which ended the third day of Oct.  Henry was reported missing in action the 4 of Oct.  I suppose the list was made up the 4 of Oct. they either made a mistake or else did not know exactly about it.  Clarence was the only one that saw him after he was wounded the rebs nearly surrounded them they were scattered and running for their lives.  Henry was mortally wounded.  Clarence stopped with him a minute or two the rebs were so near he had to leave him.  I am very sure that there has been a record of him at the Adjutant General's office that would agree better with ours will you take the trouble to go there and ascertain what you can about it, and tell Mr. Bascom.  I thought that would be evidence enough, perhaps better than I could get here, there is one private that I suppose knows Clarence came back without him the 30th of Sept. but I think he is now about 30 or 40 miles off the traveling very bad now I shall have to take an other piece of paper I thought I should write only a few lines and that would be enough.  I need the pension money very much.  Clarence's health is very poor has not been able to study much nor attend to any kind of business.  Mr. Bascom desired me to return his letter with the evidence required if you find sufficient evidence (please ask Mr. Bascom if he wants me to send his letter back) if you will take the trouble to assist me about this matter I shall be very much obliged.  very respectfully yours in haste Charlotte St. Clair  my best wishes to you and Mrs. O'Connor I will send this directed to Mrs O'Connor as I don't know exactly how to direct to you please write as soon as you find out what you can.1 I thought perhaps I could write to you and get an answer before I could get the evidence required here.  Mr Abbot offered to assist me if necessary if he is there perhaps he can use his influence in my favour.  he gave me a free pass home and appeared very friendly I don't think it strange that that mistake was made as the company was in such a condition I will close again it is about midnight so good night haven't forgotten the many favours I have already rec'd from you Clarence has'nt got quite over his fall but is so that he goes about some the rest of us are as well as usual  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00148.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Apr 23, 1866",0.31347749218,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington,  April 23, 1866  Dearest Mother, I received your letter on Saturday   I am well as usual   shall write to Han to-day   Mother, write soon as convenient after you get this, as I shall want to know if it reached you all right   I have no doubt George will do well in his business   of course there will be slack times once in a while   I have seen the ""Radical""1   Mother, I sometimes think the old letter carrier you had, must be the thief2   We have fine weather, plenty of rain to keep down the dust. We had the greatest black procession here last Thursday   I didn't think there was so many darkeys, (especially wenches,) in the world   it was the anniversary of emancipation in this District    Mother, you must try to take the moving [cooly]3   Well I believe that is all this time   Good bye, dearest mother   Love to sister Mat4 & the little girls.5 Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00205.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Apr 28, 1866",0.31415748674,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE,  Saturday afternoon, Washington, April 28, 1866  Dearest Mother, I got both your letters   the last one has just come   It is too bad to be so troubled about a house   but then, Mother, there might be troubles a great deal worse than that   Mother, when you get there, & feel able, you must write me a few lines, & give me the No. of the house, & the right address, &c. Well, mother, you must all try to get along the best you can. Try to take it easy as possible. Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00713.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Garaphelia Howard ,","May 4, 1866",0.314973480212,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington,  May 4, 1866.  My dear friend, Your contribution of $20 for the soldiers in hospital, sick or wounded, has been received   & I thank you for it most sincerely. I shall apply it to their aid, faithfully & with care. I was out to Harewood yesterday week, & last Sunday   the patients have however since been removed to another place, near the Old Douglas hospital. Then there are the Providence hospital, & the 5th Reg. Cavalry, & some other small, military hospitals. There are comparatively few soldiers now that need ministering to, but full enough to occupy one's spare hours   & especially as half of the inmates of the hospitals are discharged soldiers, drawing no pay, though sick, or suffering sometimes very deeply indeed, from relapses of old wounds. I wish you health, my friend, in body & in spirit. Farewell. Walt Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00206.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Thomas Jefferson Whitman ,","May 7, 1866",0.315381476948,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington, May 7, 1866.  Dear brother Jeff,1 By Mother's letter I have heard about the moving & the new quarters   Mother says that she is glad they are no worse, under all the circumstances. I enclose an envelope to mother, with a little money in it. As you see, I am still in the same place, with easy times enough, & a good place as I could expect. The Attorney General2 is absent now in Kentucky. There is not much work. I can't tell whether I shall keep on here, or not. There is nothing at present that looks like a change   I feel quite well this spring   but a clerk's life here is not very interesting   I went down last Thursday to Mt Vernon, 16 miles down the Potomac   I think it is the pleasantest spot & farm I ever saw   went through the house & grounds &c   I was very glad I went   Yesterday we had the funeral here of a man you must have seen mentioned in the papers, old Count Gurowski. I have been very well acquainted with him since I have lived here   he was a strange old man, a great lord in his own country, Poland, owned 30,000 serfs & great estates   an exile for conspiring against the government   he knew every thing & growled & found fault with everybody   but was always very courteous to me, & spoke very highly of me in his book, his ""Diary,"" printed last winter   his funeral was simple but very impressive   all the big radicals were there3    The fight between Congress & the President is still going on   I think the President is rather afraid of going too far against Congress, for Stevens & the rest of 'em are very determined.4 My hospitals are dwindled down to a small force   but there are plenty of cases to occupy me a couple of visits a week   I always go Sunday, & sometimes in the middle of the week   Julius Mason5 is here in barracks yet   Jeff, I wish I could now & then be home & see you all, even if was only a couple of hours    Give my best respects to Mr. Lane,6 and the Doctor7   I send my love to Mat8 & the little girls.9 Write & tell me all about home affairs, & how George10 is getting along   dear old Mother, as she gets older & older, I think about her every day & night    Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00207.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","May 14, 1866",0.316333469332,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Monday, Washington, May 14, 1866.  Dearest Mother, I hope you are entirely over that sickness of last week   When you write you must tell me   and also how you all get along with the new quarters   I think you must be pretty badly cramped   All goes on as usual with me   I spent yesterday afternoon at the Quarter Master's hospital   it is the old dregs & leavings of the war, old wounds, brokendown sick, discharged soldiers, who have no place to go, &c.   It is a shame that the Government has provided no place for such cases, of the Volunteer Army   they are just taken in here, to prevent them dying in the street   others go to the poor house   a good many break down after discharge, & have no pensions   & what is $8 a month these days anyhow? Mother, have [you] heard any thing lately from Han?1 I write to her every now & then   It is very pleasant weather here, quite cool to-day   Good by, dear mother, Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/med.00315.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Anson Ryder , Jr. ,","May 16, 1866",0.316605467156," . . . As to me, I lead rather a dull life here. I wish you were nearer, that we might be together frequently. I do not associate much with the department clerks, yet many appear to be good fellows enough. The contest between Congress and the President is quite exciting. I go up to the Capitol and listen to the speeches and arguments. Sometimes I feel as if one side had the best of it and then the other. Well, my dear comrade, I believe I have told you all the news   of Eicholtz,2 the German sergeant with the bad compound fracture, of Frazee3 and Dr. Smith.4 "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00208.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jun 12, 1866",0.32027743778,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington,  June 12, 1866.  Dearest mother, I rec'd your letter of last Thursday   I suppose you got one from me the Saturday before, with some envelopes in, & $1   Well, mother, you have got a letter from that good for nothing pup again1   it is too bad to be worried so   but one is powerless to do any thing, under present circumstances   I hope George will do well, in the houses, if he & the others put them up on Portland av.   I see there are cases of cholera once in a while in New York   you must all be careful of yourselves   it is very healthy here this summer   I havn't been troubled by the heat yet   my head is much better    Mother, I must tell you I am having some new shirts made   quite an event   I can't hardly believe it when I think how those old ones you fixed, & fixed again, have held out   but, poor old things, they have got played out pretty well   why I believe I have got one or two that you fixed for me when I went to Boston there six years ago, & more   I have 'em made in the same way as ever, & I think they are going to be very good   I expect to have half a dozen   so you see I am coming out   had quite a clearing out the other day, collected all my old tattered duds & socks, & boots & slippers &c &c. into a great heap   and when Sally, our black girl, brought up my breakfast, I told her she could have 'em all, if she wanted 'em   she was most tickled to death   took 'em all off home   there was nothing but what was all give out, though    There is nothing new with me in my affairs   if things would only work so that I could get a higher grade, with more pay, it would come very acceptable   but here I remain, in the same way as at first   however I am very glad to have what I have   Tell Jeff2 I should like to see him very much   I think he would find it pleasant to come here for a few days, even this season   Well, dear mother, my sheet is full   love to all    Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00381.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jun 26, 1866",0.322181422549,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington,  June 26, 1866.  Dearest mother, Well, I suppose you have the hot weather too   it has been very hot here for the last four or five days, but I have got along very well   I think of you every day, with the work & the heat, &c.   I believe you said that it was good air around there in Pacific st., well I should think that was one great advantage over Portland av. any how. Mother, I rec'd your letter of last week   I do not go much to the hospital this hot weather   I think I feel better than usual now for a couple of weeks past   if I can only get through the summer as well as I am, I shall be satisfied   Mrs. Grayson gives me plenty of good vegetables, peas, string beans, squash & new potatoes, with fruit now & then, which is better than too much meat   Old Mrs. Mix1 is well as usual   the house is very pleasant this weather   as cool as it can be any where    I should like to hear from Han,2 but I suppose she is getting along in the same old way   As I am writing this letter at my table, the celebrated Mrs. Cobb3 has just come in, to see about some rebel pardon, some profitable job for her, I suppose   she is a great piece   she is what most people would call a very pretty little woman   dresses gay, &c   but she has too brazen & silly a way, ever to be taken for a lady by any one that knows   she has got lots of pardons, & probably made a fortune   is half the time at the President's   is not a good character. This Washington is a great place   you see how funny the world is governed   & lots of queer doings that outsiders never dream of    Well, mother, my new shirts are done, half a dozen, very satisfactory   I havn't bought any new clothes this summer except a new hat, a big brim, light drab   makes me look like a southern planter, but is very light & comfortable   Mother, I wish you could sit here by the window I have so often mentioned, & have the cool breeze blow on you, as it is now, & the trees & river & hills beyond, so pleasant    Dear mother, you must try to take things moderate   because folks that worry & overdo are apt to get the cholera, you know   I hope brother Jeff feels all right again4   how I should like to see him, & all of you. Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00382.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jun 29, 1866",0.322589419285,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington, Friday, June 29, 1866.  Dearest Mother, I rec'd your letter this morning   I hope you have had as pleasant a change in the weather, as we have here   it rained yesterday & the night before   & to-day the weather is just right   cool enough   poor old Mrs. Mix1 is quite sick   Hector Tyndale2 has been to see me again   always talks about you   When in the army he had a very bad wound in the head   was a year getting over it    I think George must mind how he exposes himself to the sun, or gets overheated   I find I have to maneuvre through the very hot days, like a general in fight   I carry an umbrella, and if the sun gets to fall on me good & strong, any of the real hot days, my head gets swimming, & I have to stop in the street, or rather get inside some store or something, & sit down   I have had just that happen to me twenty times   so now I am very slow & careful   I think George might find a suit of good blue navy flannel first-rate for the hot weather   I am wearing mine   the suit I wore last summer   I never had any thing for heat that suited me so well    Jeff,3 I hope you had, (or will have,) a first rate time on your fishing excursion   I should like greatly to be with you    Well good bye for this time, dear mother   I send you some envelopes. Love to sister Mat,4 & the little girls.5 Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00209.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jul 2, 1866",0.322997416021,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington,  July 2, 1866.  Dearest mother, I got your letter of last Thursday   I wrote to Han1 two or three days ago   poor Mrs. Mix2 is very bad   she has her old complaint neuralgia   she suffers very much indeed   it makes me almost sick, some spells she has, the agony is terrible, & her screams are heartrending   fortunately her nights are comparatively easy   it is doubtful if she recovers    We are having delightful weather   just right   I went to the Post Hospital3 yesterday, Sunday, & who do you think was one of the first persons I found there   Jo. Velsor,4 poor fellow, he has had jaundice pretty bad, but is now getting very near well   so he goes out & around   he expects to go to work again in a day or two   he has work in the Quartermasters Dept. driving an ambulance    Mother, I suppose you got the letter Saturday last with the envelopes    I hope you have as pleasant weather in Brooklyn as we have had here for a week past, & now    It is generally expected Congress will adjourn the last of this month, & then there will be some high old times in politics & the Departments   most of us think that A[ndrew] J[ohnson] is only waiting for that, to lay around him & kick up his heels at a great rate. Well, we shall see what comes to pass   but I guess the Republicans are just every bit as ferocious as he is   they won't back down an inch    Mother, the small bills I send you, you might distribute, (or get some fire crackers or something,) for Ed,5 & Jimmy & George6   not forgetting Hat & sis7    Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/med.00316.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to John Burroughs ,","Jul 2, 1866",0.322997416021," I went up to your house this morning and took a look at the garden   Everything growing first rate   potatoes, tomatoes, corn, cabbages, and all   I guess upon the whole the garden never looked better at this time of year. We have had opportune rains   I inquired about the cow, and received a favorable report. . . . John, about coming, I am not able to say anything decisive in this letter. . . . Up in your Bureau all seems to go on as usual . . . John, I send you the July Atlantic.2 . . . I am feeling hearty and in good spirits   go around more than usual   go to such doings as base-ball matches and the music Performances in the Public grounds   Marine Band, etc. . . . I hope your parents are well   I wish you to give them my love   tho' I don't know them, I hope to one of these days   remember me to the wife, also. I am writing this by my window in the office   the breeze is blowing moderate, and the view down the river and off along Virginia hills opposite is most delightful   the pardon clerks are middling busy   I have plenty of leisure, as usual   I spent yesterday afternoon at the Hospital, and took tea in the evening at O'Connor's.3 Piatt4 is trying to get transferred to New York, to the Custom House   Well, good by for present, you dear friend, and God bless you and wife, and bring you both safe back    Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/pml.00014.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Abby H. Price ,","Jul 30, 1866",0.326805385557,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington,  July 30, 1866.  My dear friend,2 I write mainly to see whether I have got the right address   to find whether this reaches you   If so please give me an answer as soon as convenient. As you see, I am still in Washington   have a small place in the Attorney General's office   pleasant, agreeable, &c. but pretty moderate pay. My health has been good   & I have got through the hot weather all right   It is a long while since I have heard from you   & indeed it is nearly a year since I have been in New York   Direct to me Attorney Gen's. office, Washington   I expect to come north soon for a short time   Love to Helen, Emily, Arthur & all. Walt. Mother is living at 840 Pacific st. bet. Washington & Grand av's Brooklyn. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/pml.00015.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Abby H. Price ,","Aug 1, 1866",0.327077383381,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington,  Aug. 1, 1866.  Dear friend,2 I have just received your letter, & respond immediately, because by what you have written, it may be that you can do me a great favor   I have obtained leave of absence, & am coming to New York, principally to bring out a new & much better edition of Leaves of Grass complete   that unkillable work!   Mother's apartments in Pacific st are very limited, & I had decided to get a lodging room in N. Y. or Brooklyn, so as not to incommode my folks at home   taking my meals at the restaurants, & home &c   leaving my time free for my work &c   Now have you such a room for me, at a fair price? I hope you have, for that would be very agreeable   Your going off for a week or two would not make any difference   as a lodging is my main object   write immediately & let me know, as my leave of absence will probably date from Monday next, 6th inst    Mrs. O'Connor3 has gone west, with her mother, for the summer   Wm O'Connor4 is well   We all speak of you   The weather is almost perfect here now-a-days   I am writing this by my window in the south front of the Treasury building, looking down the beautiful grounds in front, and across & down the Potomac for miles, & across to the green hills all along Arlington Heights, very beautiful & cool   a view of great expanse, & very comforting every way   also a pleasant breeze coming in steadily from the river. I have an agreeable situation here   labor moderate   & plenty of leisure   My principal work is to make (from rough drafts) the letters, answers, law opinions, &c that go from the Attorney General to the President, or to the Secretary of State, & the other Heads of Departments   The rule is that none but such officers as just named have a right to require information from Attorney Generals   So you see I have to do only with the big men    There is one regular Soldiers Hospital left here, in K street   I go there once or twice every week   it is still a great privilege to go   You would be amazed, as well as distressed, to know how many old wounds are lingering along yet   youth & hope struggling against fate   but the latter, alas! almost always conquering at last   it is indeed a great privilege to soothe the lingering days & months of many of these cases. Walt. Mother is quite well, & comfortable   considering her age   brothers, sisters & the children, all well, at last accounts. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/yal.00096.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Andrew Kerr ,","Aug 25, 1866",0.330341357269,"  New York City |  August 25, 1866.  Dear friend,1 The letters arrive safe   I have received three   & I am much obliged to you, Andy, for your attention. I am having good times here, rather quiet   My book is being printed   gets along rather slowly. I ride out on Long Island, & up New York, Central Park, &c. occasionally   the country is beautiful now   I take a walk on Broadway almost every afternoon   then sometimes a sail on the river or bay   so you see I am enjoying myself in my way   with three or four hours work every day reading my proofs, &c    Andy, I suppose you are all getting along as usual   I enclose a line to Mat,2 which please give him   I send my love to you, Frank,3 Mat & Lewis   & for present, Farewell. Walt P.S. Andy, should any more letters come, you may direct them to me at 279 East 55th st. New York City4   I expect to return about 12th Sept. Finally, I must not neglect to impress upon your youthful mind   also upon that of Mr. F. Stitt   the original & solemn advice, ""Be virtuous   & you will be happy.""    from your Christian friend   Walter.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00210.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to William D. O'Connor ,","Aug 26, 1866",0.330477356181,"  279 East 55th st. New York. |  Sunday morning, Aug. 26.  Dear friend,2 Your letter came safe, & was indeed welcome. I will leave out ""orgies"" since you dislike it so much. I have been much delayed in the printing   but I believe they have now fairly got to work, & will go on expeditiously. I found a printer, Chapin,3 24 Beekman st., who was getting new type of the kind I wanted, & I waited for him   He engages to have the composition & presswork done in from two to three weeks. It will be typographically about the same as Drum-Taps, only about five times as thick   Upon calling on Huntington & Son,4 I found that Drum-Taps has sold somewhat better than I anticipated   I was treated very courteously, & they promised to advertise D. T. & push it this fall   I did not say any thing about the coming new Leaves   but may propose to Messrs. H. to be the agents before I return   I shall probably return about the 12th of September    When I arrived here, I found my mother & the rest lately moved (again) in a large old house out in Brooklyn suburbs, & in a good deal of confusion &c.   Mother was not well, & seemed generally fagged out   But since then things have come round somewhat   Mother has improved a good deal   yesterday felt quite like herself again   I spend three or four hours there every day   Jeff is very well, & George pretty well   in the latter I can see that campaigning & Danville prison have left their mark5   I am stopping at Mrs. Price's, am most pleasantly situated in personal comforts, &c.   Mrs. P. has asked much about you   hopes to see you yet   The weather here is really perfect   I have been to the Central Park, had a long ride & foot ramble   the place is probably looking its best just now   I go out on Broadway occasionally & take a walk, or a ride on the omnibus   I am received by the drivers with renewed rapture   it is more marked than ever. I havn't learned any thing worth mentioning about literary persons or doings here. I doubt whether the article will be accepted in the Galaxy6   don't know who edits it   I send my love to John Burroughs7   Also the same to Charles Eldridge8   I hope to be able to write to Nelly9   I wish you when you write to say I send my love to her. And now for a while, my dear friend, Farewell. Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/prc.00005.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to John Burroughs ,","Sep 10, 1866",0.332517339861,"  New York  Sept. 10, 1866.  My dear friend,1 My book has been delayed among the printers   but I shall stay till it is all printed   it is a little over half done, & they promise that it shall be done, or mainly so, this week. If convenient, send me a draft for the $100. If practicable send a draft payable to me, at Atlantic National Bank, of Brooklyn, New York. Write me a note separate, also. Direct to me at 279 East 55th street, New York City. The book is going to suit me pretty well   it will make a volume of 500 pages, size and style &c fully equal to 'Drum Taps'   I shall feel glad enough when it is completed   I have a constant struggle with the printers   They are good fellows and willing enough   but it seems impossible to prevent them making lots of ridiculous errors   it is my constant dread that the book will be disfigured in that way   though we have got along pretty well thus far   I rec'd a letter from William O'Connor, & wrote him in return. I shan't be back for nine or ten days. Remember 279 East 55th street, New York City. I have been well & hearty. My mother is pretty well for an old woman of 72   John, I hope this will find you, & the wife too, in good health. I send you both my love. The weather is perfect here, & if it wasn't for the worriment of the book, I should be happy as a clam at high water, as they say down on old Long Island. Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00216.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Andrew Kerr ,","Sep 10, 1866",0.332517339861,"  New York,  Sept. 10, 1866.  Dear Andy,1 I rec'd your letter last Saturday   I intended to return day after to-morrow, but shall not be able to, till the last of the week, or the early part of next week. The reason is that my book, which is a little more than half done, does not get along as fast as the printers agreed   & if I do not stay & finish it, (the supervision of it,) it will be botched & full of blunders. I am in good health & all goes well. Andy, dear boy, I hope my delay of a few days will not put you out   Write to me, & tell me about the office, & my friends there. Don't forward any letters that come after Friday next, but put them in my drawer. Once more   I send my love to you & all. Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00711.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to William E. Chapin & Company ,","Sep 24, 1866",0.334421324629,"  Sept. 24th 1866.  Wm. E. Chapin & Co.1 please furnish Mr. Ballow2 with paper for end leaves, &c. similar to that you used for the book. Walt Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/and.00001.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Mr. Baker ,","Sep 25, 1866",0.334557323541," Mr. O'Connor's address is Wm. D. O'Connor, Light House Board, Treasury Dep't. Washington, D. C. Yours respectfully, Walt Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00845.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Alfred Pratt ,","Sep 27, 1866",0.334829321365,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington,  Sept. 27, 1866.  Dear boy, & comrade,1 I am not only alive, but as well & hearty as ever I was   & more [than] that, I often think about you, Alfred, & retain the same friendship that we formed when I used to sit down on your bed when you was so low in the hospital. If I hadn't got your letter of 23d, I should likely have written to you very soon, of my own accord, for I thought about you the last few weeks in particular. I have been home in Brooklyn the last two months, to see my mother, & pay a visit to New York, &c. and I only returned day before yesterday. I am still employed in this Department, shall probably remain here through the winter, (although nothing is certain now-days)   Washington is rather dull   no more soldiers around like there used to be   no more patrols marching around the streets   no more great racks of hospitals   I get along well enough in this city in pleasant weather, when one can go around, but it's rough in bad weather. Al, I got the picture, dear boy, & I have it yet, & take good care of it, & take a good look at it every now & then   I think it is a good likeness. It is now a year ago since you sent it   you spoke in that letter of your parents   You must give my love to them, & if it should be practicable I should like much to make them a call   but yet it does not seem likely as things are at present. But I wonder whether we shall ever come together again, you & I, my loving soldier boy. O how much comfort it would be to me, if things were so that we could have each other's society   for I think so much of such things. I am writing this at my table by a big window in the Office, where I can look out & see the Potomac away down to Alexandria, & across all up & down Arlington Heights, & near at hand the grounds south of the President's House   it is a splendid day to-day, bright & clear & just cool enough   & I feel in good health   & all the better on account of your letter arriving. Well I must draw to a close. I hope, dear comrade, you are trying to be an honorable & upright young man, for that is more than the greatest worldly prosperity, or learning either. I send you my love, & must now bid you farewell for present, dear soldier boy. Walt Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/dar.00003.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to James Speed ,","Oct 13, 1866",0.337005303958,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington,  Oct. 13, 1866.  Dear Mr. Speed,1 I send herewith a copy I have procured of the new edition ""Leaves of Grass."" The price is $3. In the office here every thing goes on much as before you left. Mr. Ashton has been home to vote, remaining away three days. He & Mrs. A. are well. He seems to be busy preparing for the ensuing term, Supreme Court. Mr. Stanberry is quite popular   he is a still, bland, old fellow   is much at the President's   has left every thing in the office to go on as before. Pleasants, Stitt, &c are well. Andy Kerr is off on leave of absence.2 All hands join in sending best esteem & love to you. We have had an awful rain storm of five days, raining with hardly any intermission. The water is way up on the base-ball grounds & on 11th st from the Canal most up to the avenue. Tell Charley that I have not forgotten him   I send him my love, & hope we may meet again one these days. To-day there has been quite a rush of Confederate Generals to the office   Gen. Beauregard, Gilmore, & three or four others, have had interviews with Mr. Stanbery. Walt Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/mas.00001.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Theodore F. Dwight ,","Oct 20, 1866",0.337957296342,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington,  Oct. 20, 1866.  Theo F. Dwight, | My dear Sir, Your letter has come to hand, & I have to say in reply, that a new edition of ""Leaves of Grass,"" just now out, includes ""Drum Taps"" & every thing else I have written down to the present time. Price $3. I publish & sell it myself   sending it from here, by mail. Walt Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nar.00003.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Henry Stanbery ,","Oct 26, 1866",0.338773289814,"  Washington City |  Oct. 26. 1866.  To | Hon. Henry Stanbery | Attorney General. | Sir:1 I hereby respectfully apply for the pardon of Erastus O. Parker, aged 55 years, formerly Postmaster at the village of Monument, Mass. on the Cape Cod Railroad   now in prison at Plymouth Jail, Plymouth, Mass. The following is a statement of his case, condensed from the accompanying documents:2 At a term of U. S. Circuit Court, at Boston, Mass. in October, 1862, Parker was tried on an indictment of [please notice]3 Seven Counts; the 1st charged him with, on Oct. 22, 1860, unlawfully detaining a package sent by mail from the Falmouth Bank, containing a sum of money; the 2d charged him with opening the packet; the 3d charged him with embezzlement of $500, part of the contents of said packet; the 4th charged him with stealing & taking out said $500; the 5th charged him with advising & assisting one Joseph S. Hewins to steal & take out said valuable packet; the 6th charged him with advising & assisting one Henry C. Hewins to steal said valuable packet; & the 7th charged him with receiving & concealing a bank-note of $500, which had been stolen from the mail, & which he, Parker, knew had been stolen. The evidence proved that on Oct. 22, 1860, the Falmouth Bank sent through the mail a package containing some $5000, (of which about $1700 was in cash, & the rest in drafts,) to Suffolk Bank, Boston   that the mail from Falmouth in due course passes through Monument, at which place the bag is usually opened to put in the Boston matter   & that the package with the $5000 never reached Suffolk Bank.  Furthermore, that on the 12th of Jan. 1861, Joseph S. Hewins, of Monument, a mail contractor & driver of the mail (implicated with Parker, as just seen in the 6th count of the indictment,) receives from Monument post office a letter postmarked Boston, which, on opening, he, to his amazement, finds to contain a $500 note, & nothing else;   that on the 15th of Jan. said Joseph Hewins sends a younger brother Henry C. Hewins, with this $500 note to Falmouth Bank, to get it changed into small bills. The cashier, (the same man who had made up & sent the $5000 package to Suffolk Bank,) gives Henry Hewins the small bills as requested. Some time afterward a question is raised of this $500 note being identical with one in the stolen or missing package. Joseph Hewins is sent for, answers all questions frankly, cannot account for the $500, openly acknowledges that he has no idea who sent it to him, & produces the envelope it was sent in. This is the basis of suspicion against Parker. The prosecution charges the handwriting of the direction on the envelope to Parker. Witnesses are called to prove the handwriting on him. Several witnesses testify to its being Parker's writing to the best of their belief; but the preponderance of the testimony is against it. The best experts swear positively that it is not Parker's hand. Parker proves a remarkably good character all his previous life, by a long train of witnesses, of the best standing in the county & town. No attempt is made to prove a bad character. As to the identity of the $500 note, with one in the stolen package, the testimony makes that identity probable, but not certain. The foregoing contains every point made against Parker. Incredible as it would seem, the Jury, who, with the Court, had been thoroughly wearied out with several preceding long & tedious trials   though they brought in a verdict of Not Guilty on the 1st, 2d, 3d, 4th, 5th, & 6th counts, [see, back,]4 found him Guilty on the 7th count. On this finding Parker was sentenced to Five Years imprisonment, & sent to Jail Oct. 22, 1862   & has been incarcerated there since. Joseph S. Hewins was also tried & convicted; but was soon after pardoned. He immediately resumed his station as a respectable member of the community at Monument, & has been for some time, & is now, occupying his old position as mail carrier & contracter under the Post Office Department. When Parker was arrested he was station master on the Cape Cod Railroad, as well as postmaster of the village. Both are small positions in a pecuniary point of view. I may mention that ever since, & at this time, the officers of the Road have been & are, keeping his place for him; & his daughter is performing the duties of the post, to support the family. The belief is universal in Monument & the neighborhood that old Mr. Parker is innocent.5 It seems to be one of those curious & helpless cases that sometimes occur in judicial trials, where the accused becomes a victim in defiance of law & common sense. I am informed by the Sheriff, & the Jailer at Plymouth,6 that the old man is one of the most truthful & benevolent persons they ever knew; they use him as an assistant & messenger, and have for years allowed him to go about the jail premises & grounds on his own parole. Both warmly join in the application for his pardon, & one of them adds his belief in Parker's innocence.7 I have but respectfully to add, that as the whole theory on which he was convicted was but an inference from an inference   that, as on the substantial counts of his indictment he was pronounced not guilty   that as the sentence, on that comparatively mild 7th count, was a cruel & heavy one   & that, waiving my claim of his innocence, (which, after a thorough examination of the Case, I devoutly believe in)8   I submit, that he has already served four years in prison, & is now a most proper subject for Warrant of Pardon. Walt Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/pml.00016.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Abby H. Price ,","Oct 27, 1866",0.338909288726,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington,  Oct. 27, 1866.  Mrs. Price,2 & all | My dear friends, I sent you a telegram, ten minutes ago, telling you that I have just succeeded in getting an order from the Attorney General for Mr. Parker's pardon.3 The pardon will probably go from here, (from the State Department,) on Monday next   the day you will receive this note   it will be directed to the Jail at Plymouth. I have had much more of a struggle than I anticipated   the pardon clerk knew the case, & was filled with Mr. Dana's4 reports upon it. When we meet, (or perhaps by letter, before) I will give you a more detailed account of the progress of the affair here, & its fluctuations. But no matter   it has ended successfully. I have written to Aurelia Parker, & sent the news, the same mail as this. I am fearfully well   indeed so red & fat that people stop in the street & gaze at me. In the office, & my work, every thing goes on as usual. We are having delicious weather, coolish & bright. Has Arthur5 gone, then? Well you will value him all the more, when you have him again. Helen & Emmy,6 my dear friends, I send you my best love   Go over & see my mother when you can   Best remembrance to Mr. Arnold7   also to Mr. Price.8 Walt "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00212.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Oct 30, 1866",0.339317285462,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington,  Oct. 30, 1866.  Dearest Mother, I am well as usual, & having good times   There is nothing new to tell you   I hope you are well, mother dear   & Mat & the little girls & Jeff & Georgy   I begin to want to see you all again   I hear there is a long & favorable piece about me & Leaves of Grass in an English magazine called the Fortnightly Review2   one of the highest rank, too   Well, I am now going to leave off, & drink a cup of tea   near us there is a room where the Treasury ladies work   about noon they have tea   one of our own clerks has a sort of sweetheart in there who sends him every day a cup of splendid green tea   which as he dont drink the article   he always makes over to me    Well, mother dear, good bye for this time    Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/khs.00001.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Richard J. Hinton ,","Nov 3, 1866",0.33986128111,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington,  Nov. 3, 1866.  Dear Hinton, The bearer, my friend, Mr. Shambaugh,2 was showing me a letter he has received, (he is on a Committee of Sold. & Sail. Union League)   I think it ought to be published in full. You make a brief introduction to it & let it go in a Sunday Chronicle.3 Let him have a proof when it is set up, to bring to me. Yours &c Walt Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00871.html," Letter from Bayard Taylor to Walt Whitman ,","Nov 12, 1866",0.341085271318,"  Kennett Square, Penna. Nov. 12, 1866  My dear Sir: I send to you by the same mail which takes this note, a copy of my last poem The Picture of St. John.  I do not know whether the subject of the poem (the growth and development of the artist-nature, and its relation to life) will much interest you, but I hope you will here and there find something drawn immediately from nature.  I am, at least, not aware that anything in the book is simulated or forced:  whether successful or not, it is an honest conscientious effort. I value, above all things, sincerity  in literature; hence I am not one of those who overlook your remarkable powers of expression, your broad, vital reverence for humanity, because some things you have said repel them.  The age is over-squeamish, and, for my part, I prefer the honest nude to the suggestive half-draped.  I think the proper question to be asked is:  does a certain thing need to be said?  If so, let it be said!  The worst form of immorality, I have found, veils itself in decent words. There is one quality I recognize in you, which warmly and constantly attracts me.  That is, your deep and tender reverence for Man   your unwearied, affectionate, practical fraternity.  There is too little of this quality in the world, and the race will be better and happier in proportion as it is manifested. I shall be in Washington on the 27th of December, to lecture, and hope that I shall then be able to meet you personally.  If you can spare me an hour or two after the lecture, you will greatly oblige  Your friend, Bayard Taylor  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00149.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Nov 13, 1866",0.34122127023,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington,  Nov. 13, 1866.  Dearest Mother, I have had a very bad cold the past week or so, but am feeling better to-day. I am at the office as usual every day. The promotion I spoke about last week hasn't come yet1   I guess I had better make no reckoning of it till it comes   Mother, I havn't received any letter from you the past week   I sent you day before yesterday a paper with the piece in (or most of it) from the London Fortnightly Review   it was meant well, but a good deal of it is most ridiculous.2 Here in the office every thing goes on as usual. The Attorney General and Assistant are very busy getting themselves ready to argue their cases in the U. S. Supreme Court, which holds a session here every winter, & all the big cases, in which the U. S. are a party, come off on such occasions. We are having pleasant weather yet   a little dusty though. The O'Connors are all well   they have got to move, & are worrying a good deal about it. Well, I believe that is all   so good bye for this time, mother dear. I send my love to Jeff & George & Mat & all. Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/yal.00101.html," Letter from Horace Wentworth to Walt Whitman ,","Nov 16, 1866",0.341629266966,"  Boston Nov 16 1866  Mr W. Whitman Dear Sir I own the Stereotype plates of your Poem, ""Leaves of Grass"" I bought them of the assigness of Thayer & Eldridge at the time of their failure. I should like to sell them & did not know but you would like to purchase if you could get them at the right figure. I do not know what they cost, but my impression is, that it was somewhere in the neighborhood of $800. I would be pleased to have you state what you would give for them, or to know if you could refer me to any publisher who would be likely to purchase. I think you could make better arrangements with publishers if you owned the Stereotype plates  Yours Resptly H. Wentworth  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/prc.00006.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Nov 16, 1866",0.341629266966,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington,  Nov. 16, 1866. Friday afternoon.  Dearest Mother, I only write again this week (I wrote last Tuesday) to inform you that the Attorney General has promoted me. I have now a real good berth, what they call a third class clerk with the pay of $1600 a year.1 I shall have about $127 a month (they take a little off, every time they pay, on acc't of gov't tax.) Besides I have now a regular appointment, instead of being a temporary clerk, as before. I was appointed last Wednesday, my new grade & pay commence on Nov. 1st   I haven't got a letter from home for ten or twelve days. The Attorney General has gone to New York   he is badly afflicted with sore eyes, & has gone there to see the best oculists    My cold, or whatever it is, is better to-day   I hope you are all well   Good bye, dear mother. Write soon. Walt. Mother, I send some envelopes   You must have paper   you know I left you a great lot, when I was home. I hope you are not sick, dear mother. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/uva.00348.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Bayard Taylor ,","Nov 18, 1866",0.34190126479,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington,  Nov. 18, 1866.  My dear Mr. Taylor,1 I have received your letter of the 12th. The friendly pages thereof have given me pleasure, & I wish to proffer you my friendship in response. Should I not see you at the lecture, I hope you will do me the honor to call upon me at the Attorney General's office here, in the Treasury Building, where I am employed. Your book also came safely. I accept it, as a kind & valuable gift   & heartily thank you. Permit me to send you, in return, a copy of the new edition of Leaves of Grass. I send it herewith by same mail. Truly hoping to see you   for the present, Farewell. Walt Whitman. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00150.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Nov 20, 1866",0.342173262614,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington,  Nov. 20, 1866.  Dearest mother, I suppose you got two letters from me last week, Wednesday & Saturday   My cold still troubles me some   I have a good deal of pain in the head   I think it is neuralgia   but I guess I shall get over it   I have good meals, I do not cook for myself, at present   but get my grub at a good New England restaurant   Mother, I received your letter a week ago   there is nothing new in the office   the poor Attorney General has a cataract forming on one of his eyes, & will have to undergo a surgical operation   Mother, I told you all about my promotion & appointment to a regular berth, in Saturday's letter    Well, mother dear, I will bid you good bye for this week    Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00213.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Nov 23, 1866",0.34258125935,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington,  Nov. 23, 1866.  Dearest mother, I feel middling well to-day. I go to the office just the same as usual   If I had a good home where I could have a decent time, & keep in for three or four days, I should get all right   the principal trouble with me, I think, is neuralgia   it gives me great distress in the head at times   but the spells do not last long at a time   I eat pretty nearly the same as usual   but do not sleep well   But I think I am making too much of it   I thought I would write you just a few lines, you would get Saturday. You must tell Jeff or George to get the ""Galaxy"" of Dec. 1.   it is a magazine   it is for sale at most of the book-stands   30 cts   it has a piece in about me1   I think it is very good   John Burroughs is a young man from Delaware county, New York   he lives here, now, is married   I am well acquainted with him, & he & his wife have been very hospitable & friendly to me. Mr. Conway's article2 was about as impudent as it was friendly   quite a mixture of good & bad. I am glad you like Emily Price   she is a good girl. She seems to me one that you needn't make any fuss or change   but let domestic things go on just as they may be, when she comes to visit you. It is pleasant this afternoon   the sun is shining out   the river & hills on the other side look beautiful. I sent Han a book   ""Lady Audley's Secret""3   & shall send her a letter to-day. Dont forget, George or Jeffy, to get the Galaxy of Dec. 1. Mother, if any of you want another copy of the new ""Leaves of Grass,"" I can send you an order for one on the binder in New York, & you can get it. Well, mother dear, I believe that is all   except that I am getting a new pair of trowserloons   Shall not get any other new clothes this winter    Love to George & all. Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.02115.html," Letter from Alexander Gardner to Walt Whitman ,","Nov 26, 1866",0.342989256086,"  Washington, 26 November, 1866.  My dear Whitman, I received this morning from an old friend (Mr. Robert Buchanan) in England a letter and among other things he asks me to send him Leaves of Grass, Drum Taps and any other works by the author Walt Whitman of the Attorney General's department, Washington, and a portrait if it can be got by hook or crook. I shall make a copy from each negative. Please tell me if there are any other works of yours than the above and where I can get them. He desires also that I should send him a portrait of Emerson. Can you tell me where I can get a good one?  Yours respectfully, Alex. Gardner.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00877.html," Letter from Horace Wentworth to Walt Whitman ,","Nov 27, 1866",0.343125254998,"  Boston Nov 27th 1866 Mr. Walt Whitman  Dear Sir. I own the stereotype plates of the work, ""Leaves of Grass"" by Walt Whitman with portrait of the author, and also the right to publish, which I bought of the assignees of Thayer and Eldridge, & in which I am protected by the assignees, the master in Chancery, and by the laws of the Country, if I understand them. I shall unqualifiedly protest against the printing or publication of any work, bearing the title or containing in any way the same matter as the ""Leaves of Grass.""  The plates and engraving are in the market at a nominal price, tho' I intend to republish if they are not soon disposed of.  Also the stereotype plates of the pamphlets notices which we should be pleased to sell with the plates. We have a very few of the ""Imprints"" which we wish to keep, in case we publish and need them.  Yours Resptly, H. Wentworth1  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00151.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Nov 27, 1866",0.343125254998," I suppose you got a letter last Saturday as well as the previous Wednesday   I am better than I was last week   not as well as I would like to be, but well enough to keep on with my work, &c. just the same as ever   I feel real well, sometimes, for a day   but then comes the trouble in the head again   Did you get the ""Galaxy"" of Dec. 1st? I think it a very good piece. Every thing here in the office goes on as usual. I got your letter, mother. I wrote to Han last week. It is beautiful weather here to-day   I have got my new trowsers   $20!!   only think of that!   it is lucky I wear my clothes a long while    Walt. Mother, I would rather you would use the money to get things for yourself   shoes, stockings, underclothes    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00714.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to John S. Jenks ,","Nov 28, 1866",0.34326125391,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington.  Nov. 28, 1866.  John S. Jenks, Sir, In answer to yours of the 27th I reply that no letter from you, of the 17th has come to hand   & of course I have not rec'd $3.1 But as I am not willing you should be the loser, in such a manner, I send you my book, by same mail with this. Walt Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/med.00330.html, Letter from Charles L. Heyde to Walt Whitman,"Dec 0, 1866",0.343533251734,"  Burlington Dec 1866  Friend Walt. I have sent to you the ""Galaxy""; It contains two articles, one on Whitman and one on Swinburne,2   I have read both criticisms, with great satisfaction. Richard Grant White has but paid just sympathy to a true poet ""Swinburne""; The criticism is a ""Poem,"" in itself. It has the comprehensiveness, and the fearless recognition of the divine idea, or sentiment of ""Love,"" as expressed by the Poet, he writes upon   Swinburne electrifies me. I read one verse of his ""Laus Veneris,"" in a store, and bought the book   When critics or ordinary readers, or writers scribble him down, the Sun will cease to procreate and vitalize the earth. He is cultivated, and ""passion"" is his subject   ""St Dorothy"" is saddening, and the ""Leper"" oh how passionately full of piteous Love   and the ""Orchard"" oh! the night is all starrd by it, and earth burdend with dewy fragrancies    There is enough beauty in your ""Leaves"" to make a rare book, and not cast out sensuous extravagance either. But you are wonderfully, woefully mistaken in the privileage you take of being merely savagely material, and consequently offensively vulgar    Han is much better than usual, and is continualy promising to write to her Mother.  C L Heyde  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00715.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to John S. Jenks ,","Dec 1, 1866",0.343669250646,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington,  Dec. 1, 1866.  John S. Jenks, My dear Sir, I have rec'd your note of 30th Nov. with $3. Please accept my special acknowledgments. Should the letter of Nov. 17, ever appear, I will return it to you. Walt Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00872.html," Letter from Bayard Taylor to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 2, 1866",0.343805249558,"  Kennett Square, Penna. Dec. 2, 1866  My dear Whitman: I find your book and cordial letter, on returning home from a lecturing tour in New York, and heartily thank you for both.  I have had the first edition of your Leaves of Grass among my books, since its first appearance, and have read it many times.  I may say, frankly, that there are two things in it which I find nowhere else in literature, though I find them in my own nature.  I mean the awe and wonder and reverence and beauty of Life, as expressed in the human body, with the physical attraction and delight of mere contact which it inspires, and that tender and noble love of man for man which once certainly existed, but now almost seems to have gone out of the experience of the race.  I think there is nothing in your volume which I do not fully comprehend in the sense in which you wrote; I always try to judge an author from his own standpoint rather than mine, but in this case the two nearly coincide.  We should differ rather in regard to form than substance, I suspect.  There is not one word of your large and beautiful sympathy for men, which I cannot take into my own heart, nor one of those subtle and wonderful physical affinities you describe which I cannot comprehend.  I say these things, not in the way of praise, but because I know from my own experience that correct appreciation of an author is less frequent than it should be.  It is welcome to me, and may be so to you. I did not mean to write so much when I commenced, and will only say that I will be in Washington on the 27th   only for that night   and would be very glad if we can come together for awhile after my lecture is over.  I am afraid I shall not arrive in time to call at the Dep't before the lecture, but if I can I will.  If not, will you either come to Willard's or tell me where to find you, and oblige  Your friend, Bayard Taylor  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00152.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Dec 3, 1866",0.34394124847,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington,  Dec. 3, 1866. Monday afternoon.  Dearest Mother, I thought I would write a day before the usual time, as I did not send any letter last Saturday. For the last two days I have felt a good deal better   My head is much better, & I feel more like myself every way. I sent Han a short letter last Friday, & sent the piece from the ""Galaxy""1   I thought it would please her. I went to the Hospital yesterday afternoon   took a lot of tobacco, &c. I wrote several letters   there are quite a good many, some with sickness, some with old wounds   two or three in the last stages of consumption, &c. I go every Sunday, & sometimes Wednesday also   There are many of the patients, very young men, country boys   several from the Southern states, whose parents & homes & families are gone or broke up   & they have enlisted in the regular army   then they get down with fever or something, & are sent to Hospital   I find most of them can't read or write   there are many of these homeless Southern young men now enlisted in the regulars   they have no other resource    We have quite a procession here to-day to ""welcome Congress""   two-thirds of it consists of darkies   they look very well too   the streets are jammed with darkies   I tell you when they do turn out here they are thicker than crows in a cornfield    The O'Connors have got to move   but can't get a house suitable   Every thing in the office same as usual   We are having beautiful bright, coolish weather    Thursday last, Thanksgiving day, four of us went out in Maryland 15 miles, to see the Great Falls, on the Potomac. We carried a basket of grub, built a fire & made tea, &c   had a first rate, quiet time   the Falls were a fine sight   almost as impressive as Niagara   I much enjoyed the ride & every thing, & it did me good   I felt well, all day, & have felt quite well ever since. Love to you, dearest mother, & to all. Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00153.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Dec 4, 1866",0.344077247382,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington,  Dec. 4, 1866.  Dearest Mother, I wrote you yesterday, (Monday,) which I suppose you rec'd, with the money. I have just heard from Han, & I write to-day because I knew it would be a comfort to you to know right away. Heyde has just sent me a letter   he seems to be in a very good humor   writes a lot of stuff   but not about domestic affairs this time   on ""poetry"" & ""criticism"" &c. &c   of no interest at all to me   then at the close of the letter he says: ""Han is much better than usual, & is constantly promising to write to her mother.""1 Mother, I send you the part of the N. Y. Times, containing a good long piece about me. It is the N. Y. Daily Times, of Sunday, Dec 2   but perhaps George or Jeff brought it to you last Sunday. I feel pretty well generally   with now & then a poorish spell    I am going to hear the great actress Ristori2 to-morrow night. One of my fellow clerks has taken a seat for me, & made me a present of it   the play is ""Queen Elisabeth""   I wish you & Mat could go with me    The piece in the Times is by O'Connor.3 He grows stronger & stronger, & fiercer & fiercer in his championship of ""Leaves of Grass""   no one can ever say a word against it in his presence, without a storm. Did you get the ""Galaxy"" of Dec 1   ? William Swinton4 is here in Washington, temporarily. He is interested in speculating in gold. It is very fine weather here to-day. I am writing this by my big window, where I can look out on the water   the sun is shining bright as silver. Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00873.html," Letter from Hugh B. Thomson to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 5, 1866",0.344213246294,"  New York December 5, 1866 Walt Whitman Esq.  Dear Sir.    The undersigned though a comparative stranger to you feels himself drawn toward you closer and closer after perusing your ""Leaves of Grass.""  We have a sympathy in common with you. in some of these well wrought passages the experiences taught there has been one to some extent. While doing garrison duty with my regiment the 2nd New York Arty on the works South of the Potomac I visited Washington in company with a comrade named Charles String of Connecticut and by him introduced to you at your studio. (I forget the street) but it was not far removed from the avenue. if I mistake not, you accompanied us to the theatre at night. I have never forgotten you since, remembering you as a friend to the Union and the ""boys"" striving to keep it together. I left the regiment in the trenches in front of Petersburgh, my term of Service having expired, after three years Service from Oct 1861.  on arriving at Washington I tried to find you but could not.  when you first met me, on leaving you you gave me a small book of poems with your name in it, bidding me think of you.  I stowed it away in my knapsack but loosing that I lost your gift.  I would like a duplicate, if it is not presuming too much.  I trust you will not think me forward in this.  With many and kind regards  Very Respectfully Yours Hugh B. Thomson 242 Canal St New York City.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00612.html," Letter from Benton H. Wilson to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 9, 1866",0.344757241942," Walt Whitman, Dear old Friend, I wrote to you a long time ago and received one letter from you but when I wrote again I received no answer and supposed you had not received my letter and I thought I would write you a few lines again and see if you had not forgotten me. I would try to make myself one of your correspondents for I would really like to hear from you very much for I formed an attachment for you during my short stay in washington (and at the hospital) that I would like to perpetuate it. I do not know your present address but shall address this the same as I did the last one I wrote to you. My Friend Hamilton started for Leavenworth Kansas last week to see his Brother, who has been jammed up on the Rail Road, and had his leg amputated. I will not weary you with a very long letter this time but will wait till I get an answer to this and then I will try to do better.   I am as every your sincere friend  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/tex.00154.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Dec 10, 1866",0.344893240854,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington,  Dec. 10, 1866.  Dearest Mother, I have grown better the last four or five days, & don't have that pain in my head now. Well, mother, it is the middle of Tuesday afternoon, & the carrier has just brought your letter, (though I see it was written Saturday.) Mother, your letter is the first news I have had of the fire   it must have been quite an exciting time   & quite a sad loss, anyhow    I went to see Ristori, the great actress, the other night, & was very much pleased   but don't want to go again. It has got pretty cold here the last two days   I wear my big old overcoat. Every thing goes on the same in the office   I have written again to Han   I send her some book or something to read, occasionally   I got a letter from Mrs. Price   Helen is not very well    Mother, I will send you another Times, with Wm O'Connor's piece in. It seems as if things were going to brighten up about ""Leaves of Grass."" I rather think it is going to be republished in England. Well, mother, you must keep a good heart   and good bye for this time    Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/pml.00017.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Abby H. Price ,","Dec 10, 1866",0.344893240854,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington.  Dec. 10, 1866.  My dear friend,2 Yours of the 8th has just come. I am glad indeed to hear that you are free from asthma, & are feeling well. I should be truly happy to become acquainted with Mrs. Andrews3   I am sure I should like her much. For a month or so, I have not been very well   my trouble takes the form, sometimes, of neuralgia   but is a complication   (the doctor says it probably all dates from that time I got saturated with hospital malaria)   But I keep around, & go to the office just the same   & now for four of five days have felt much better    The O'Connors are well   The consul at Rio Janeiro is James Munroe   Our Minister to Brazil, resident in Rio Janeiro, is James Watson Webb.4 I send my love to Helen and Emmy & all   I have rec'd a letter from mother to-day   she seems to be about the same as usual   I hope Helen or Emmy will just go over & visit her without ceremony as often as possible. Give my respects to Mr. Arnold5   also to Mr. Price   It would give me the greatest pleasure to see you or Helen here in Washington. I rec'd your friend's (Katy Hinds)6 letter at the time   I have had no letter from Mr. Parker's family7   I am writing this by my window in the office   it is a fine view, ten miles of river, & away across to Virginia hills, ever so far   My place is an easy & pleasant one here in the Att'y Gen's. office   And now for the present, dear friend, Farewell. Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00613.html," Letter from Hugh B. Thomson to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 13, 1866",0.34530123759," Mr. Walt Whitman, My Dear friend Your kind favor of the 11th inst came duly to hand, and was followed next day by your copy of ""Drum Taps."" Accept of my thanks for both it was more certainly than I could expect from a comparative stranger to me.   and yet not a stranger, for I am hailed as a soldier and comrade there is the link that binds me to you in a bond of unity and good feeling. May it never be severed by an unloyal act of mine, let our password be ""Goodwill,"" and when called upon to sunder all earthly ties, when the last ""long roll"" is called in which there will be no ""missing"" may we be found in the ranks of the Captain of our Salvation, ready to enter upon an eternity of bliss and where parting is no more. I shall be pleased to see you when in our city, and in anything that I can contribute to your happiness in all things command me. With Many Regards, Respectfully Yours "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/duk.00531.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Anson Ryder , Jr. ,","Dec 14, 1866",0.345437236502,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington,  Dec. 14, 1866.  Dear boy & comrade, I rec'd your letter of the 9th2   & am real glad to hear from you, & that you are well & in good spirits, as appears by your letter. You speak how much you would like to see me, & we could be together a while. I too, dear friend, would be so glad if we were near each other where we could have each other's company often. I am still working here in the same office   We have lately a new Attorney General3   One of the first things he did was to promote me!   Sensible man, wasn't he?   May the Lord reward him. I have been absent on leave the past summer two months   went to New York   spent most of the time with my mother, in Brooklyn   I have been well since I last wrote to you, mostly   only the last six weeks have had rather a bad time with neuralgia   but am getting over it. Things with friend Hiram Frazee4 have gone poorly. He went from Harewood hospital here, to Brooklyn, to the City Hospital there   he had a terrific operation there that nearly cost him his life, & after all did no good   it was a pay hospital, & his stay in it cost him $300   The last I heard of Frazee was about two months ago   he was then home   his address is Hiram W. Frazee, Camden, Oneida Co. New York   he wrote me, & said he was as comfortable as one in his condition could be   he spoke about you in his letter, & wanted much to know about you    Wood I have not heard from. Here in Washington Congress is in session, & rather lively times   I suppose you see the acc'ts in the papers. Dear Comrade, you don't give me the particulars what you are doing, &c. you must, when you write again   you speak of not being overburdened with green backs, & profits &c.   Well, boy, one can bear that, if one only keeps hearty & fat & in good spirits, as I guess you are. Well, I keep about as stout as ever, and my face red & great beard just the same as when I used to see you   I eat my rations every time, too   I am writing this in the office by a big window with a splendid view of the Potomac & Arlington Heights   Well I find I must close   I send my love to you, darling boy, & I want you always to keep me posted wherever you go, dear Comrade.  Walt Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00614.html," Letter from Benton H. Wilson to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 16, 1866",0.345709234326," Dear Friend Whitman, I received your kind and welcome leter of the 13th inst and I assure you I was very glad to hear from you again and to hear that you are in good health and hope you will escape from any more attacks of Neuralgia. I wish if agreeable to yourself to keep up a regular correspondence between us, and perpetuate the friendship commenced in Armory Square Hospital. I think it will be of benefit to me morally and perhaps will not be of any detriment to you. A few days ago I picked up a paper through my Friend Hamilton containing an article regarding Walt Whitman the Poet which was the first intimation I had of your being an author. I will send you the paper if you wish. I would like very much to read your works for I have heard my Father speak a few days ago of your Leaves of Grass and says it is well suited to the American People. Father has been here visiting me for a few days but has gone away now. he borrowed Leaves of Grass, of a friend of his here several years ago I believe, I have never seen any of your works. The weather has been very Cold for the past week and this morning it commenced to snow and has not stopped yet at 4 P.M. and I think we are going to have some sleighing for Christmas. I hope our political troubles will soon cease and the country get settled but I can not endorse the policy of President Johnson for I do not believe it is right to place the rebels in office or to allow them to vote until they are thoroughly repentant. I must draw my letter to a close for this time, and hope I shall hear from you soon again. I hope you will have a merry Christmas and a happy New Year.   With love I remain your sincere Friend.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/yal.00102.html," Letter from Horace Wentworth to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 17, 1866",0.345845233238,"  Boston Dec 17 / 66  Mr Walt Whitman, Sir What will you give me for the stereotype plates, ""Imprints of the Leaves of Grass"" Would be pleased to hear from you soon  Resptly Yours H. Wentworth  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00214.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Dec 18, 1866",0.34598123215,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington,  Dec. 18, 1866.  Dearest Mother, I rec'd your letter Sunday morning last   It has been very cold here too, but is pleasant now. I sent you a copy of ""Leaves of Grass""   which I suppose you have rec'd. Every thing here with me remains the same   I am free from the distress in my head   Mrs. Grayson1 is very sick   she sent my old washerwoman, old Aunt Kitty, around this morning to see if I had any of ""that bread my mother used to send me""   I suppose she meant the sweet Dyer bread   I gave her a piece a long while ago, & she liked it   poor woman, I think she is on her dying bed   Mother, you must write to me how Jeff is, & how he is getting along   tell Hattie I hope she will take a lesson on the piano every day, and learn to play for her Uncle Walt   so when he comes home, she can play a beautiful tune2    I have been down to the Hospital a great deal lately   A friend of mine that I have known over three years, a Maine soldier named Racliffe,3 was very low with consumption & bleeding at the lungs   He died Sunday morning   it was a great relief, for he suffered much    Well, mother, I believe that is all this time. Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00443.html," Letter from Thomas Jefferson Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 21, 1866",0.346389228886,"  Brooklyn Dec 21st/66 Dear Walt, Sent letter to Worthen1   as soon as received  Mother received letter and book   by the way can I get one of the books to present to Ruggles2  The $31 was made up as follows  Moses Lane $5.  Davis $5.3  self $5.  McNamee,4 Brower,5 Story,6 Bergen,7 Ward,8 Lewis,9 Clapp10 and Van Buren11 (all young men employed in our office) each $2. Hope you wont be disappointed in the smallness of the amount   but Davis had to go away and did'nt have time to see if he could collect any at his office. Mother Mat and the children are all quite well   but have rather a hard time to keep warm12   wish when you write Mother you would always say something abt Hattie's learning to read and play &c  it sets her ahead wonderfully   you know how such things please children   should like to have you write me that long letter   I hope also to be able to pay you a short visit this winter   soon after the Holidays   everything is going abt as usual with us at home affectionately yours Jeff"
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/uva.00349.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Dec 24, 1866",0.346797225622,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington.  Dec. 24, 1866.  Dearest mother, I got Jeff's letter sending the money toward the soldiers' dinner   it was more than I asked for, & was very good of them all1   I have not had any trouble myself, worth mentioning   the dinner has been got up at my instigation   I have contributed handsomely   but they, (the Hospital steward, &c.) have done the work. Mother, I sent Han a handsome little volume of ""Florence Percy's Poems,""2 & $5 for a Christmas present. Sent it to-day. Poor Han   I suppose every such thing does her so much good    Don't you believe that fool Heyde lately wrote a long letter to Mr. Raymond,3 editor of the N. Y. Times   in it he said ""Walt was a good fellow enough   but""   & then he went on to run down Leaves of Grass, like the rest of 'em    The way I know is, Wm. O'Connor was invited by Raymond to come & see him   & he told O'Connor he had received a number of letters about that piece in the Times of Dec. 2, which I sent you. He said they all praised the piece, & thanked him (Raymond) for printing it, except one he got from a fellow in Vermont who called himself Walt Whitman's relation   a brother in law, he believed   quite a good deal of stuff. Raymond seemed to think the man was either crazy or a fool, & he treated the letter with contempt. I dont want you to write any thing about it, to Han, of course   only if she was here, we would tell her. The puppy thought I suppose that he could get his letter printed, & injure me & my book. We are likely to have a pleasant day for Christmas   when I next write I will tell you about the dinner   I must inform you that I have had a present of a beautiful knife, a real Rogers' steel, to-day from the Attorney General   Mother, $2 is for Nance4   you can give it to her in money, or any way you like    Well, dear mother, this is Christmas eve, & I am writing it in the office by gas light, so as it will be ready to go to-morrow   I have not heard since from Mrs. Grayson. Good night, mother dear. Walt. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00846.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to George Wood ,","Dec 29, 1866",0.347477220182,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington.  Dec. 29, 1866.  My dear Mr. Wood,1 I write to solicit from you $2, for helping my soldier boys to some festivities these holiday & New Year times. Yours Walt Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/tex.00182.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jan 1, 1867",0.347885216918,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington. Jan. 1, 1867 Dearest Mother,              I have just rec'd your letter   I thought of you during that storm   it was very severe here too,                  & awful gales of wind one or two nights   The dinner in the Hospital                 was a complete success   there was plenty, & good too   turkey & four or five kinds of vegetables, & mince pie, &c   then I purchased a large quantity of navy plug, & smoking tobacco, & pipes, &c. and after dinner                 every body that wanted to, had a good smoke   & I had a lot of oranges, apples, &c. & a large sugar cake for supper   then I read some amusing pieces to them for three quarters of an hour, for a change   & sat down by those who were worst off   &c. &c. Nobody else came in that day.                  They have a Chaplain, but he is miserable coot, like the rest of his tribe.              I have written again to Han                    I am writing this in the office, all alone   I am going down to the Hospital for a little while, & to carry some tobacco   & then I am invited to O'Connor's to dinner at 4 o'clock   we are to have cold turkey, hot vegetables, &c   They are going to stay where they are till next March.                  We have had quite a snow storm here   it is snowing moderately now.                  Some are out with their sleighs. I am glad to hear such a good account of Eddy.                 It makes me feel quite satisfied.              I had a visit from Bayard Taylor, a few days since. Well good bye for this time, dear mother.  Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/tex.00183.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jan 8, 1867",0.348837209302,"  Attorney General's Office, Washington. Jan. 8, 1867 Dearest mother,              Well, every thing is just about the same. I rec'd your letter New Years. I have rec'd                 a small present from Heyde   he sent me a small stereoscope, that is to put pictures in,                 & look through it, & it magnifies them, & makes them look like the real                 thing   it has some beautiful views of scenes in Vermont   I forget whether                 I told you that I sent Han some gloves & a $5 bill, Christmas   so I                 suppose this is in return   He says Han rec'd the parcels. Mrs. Grayson is still living   she is slightly better   I                 go [to] the hospital now oftener than usual   there are several very                 low   I just go, for an hour or so, [a] time   I had rather go than                 not    Every thing is covered with snow here, looks wintry enough   cold weather, but                 somehow I like it   I have no fire in my room, so far, this winter   I have                 rec'd a letter from Mrs. Price. You must tell me how George is getting along with                 his business. You might ask George whether any thing could be done with $500                 cash about getting a lot & moderate-sized two story house to have say 15 or                 $1600 on mortagage?   whether they could get some one to take the rest on                 mortgage, so as to save themselves    Mat, I went to the opera last [night]   went alone   I was much pleased    the piece was Ernani   first                 amusement I have been to in a year, except once to hear Ristori    Good by, mother dear.  Walt.              I sent Jeff some envelopes for you a week ago. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/tex.00184.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jan 15, 1867",0.349789201686,"  Attorney General's Office, Washington. Tuesday Jan. 15, 1867.                  Dearest Mother,              I received your letter of Wednesday evening last   I thought it would be very                 blustering & cold there on the hill this winter, & I know you must have                 freezing times, especially in the west rooms   We have had a great deal of snow                 here, & very cold weather. I get along very well, considering. Mother, I have to inform you that poor Mrs. Grayson has gone at last. I wrote in my last letter that I had met her son Willy                 in the street, Monday Jan. 7, & he told me she was somewhat better   well,                 it was that very night, she died, & was buried the next Wednesday   they                 sent me word that the funeral was to be at ½ past 2   but the man didn't                 tell me any thing about it till 4   so I was not at the funeral   poor                 woman, she is at rest, & it is a blessed thing for her   she had an easy                 & peaceful death, I hear   But that devil, old Grayson, it is he that was                 the cause of her dying   about three days before her death, he had a fight in                 the house, with his son-in-law   there was great excitement, & Old Grayson                 put them all out of the house, son-in-law, children, &c   I suppose that                 hastened Mrs. Grayson's death   I have not been there, but shall go & see                 poor old Mrs. Mix   She will not last long now   Old Aunt Kitty, the washwoman, says                 that Mrs. Grayson spoke much about me, & wanted me to come & see                 her   but I never knew any thing of it   (Mother, I believe there can be a                 greater nuisance & devil even than Heyde.) Well, we are having pretty serious times here, in Congress, &c   I rather                 think they are going to impeach Johnson & bring him to trial   it is a                 serious business   I cannot tell how it will turn out   only I know both                 sides seem determined, & neither will give an inch    There have been several died in the hospital, that I was with a good deal, since I                 last wrote   one of consumption   one of abscess on the liver, very                 bad   I was down there Sunday afternoon, carried a great big 12 pound cake, for                 the men's supper   there was a piece for all, & very acceptable   as                 the supper consisted of plain bread, a thin wash they called tea, & some                 miserable apple sauce   that was all   I carry a big cake often of Sunday                 afternoons   I have it made for me by an old mulatto woman, cook, that keeps a                 stand in the market   it is sort of molasses pound cake, common but good. I have received a letter from old Uncle Otis Parker, the old man that I got pardoned down at Cape Cod, Mass. He                 is very grateful. Every thing in the office here goes on as usual. I have a little more work to do than                 I have had. One of the clerks, the youngest, was dismissed, (or suspended,) lately                 for selling some information about pardons to the Herald   the Attorney Gen'l was very mad about it, & gave him a sharp                 talking to. We are having quite good sleighing here to-day.                               Well good bye, dear mother   & give my love to George, & Jeff, &                 Matty, & all.  Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00254.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jan 22, 1867",0.35074119407,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington. Tuesday noon Jan. 22, 1867.                                                       Dearest mother,              I rec'd your letter of the 17th   I have been thinking about you this cold weather   & especially the storm latter part of last week, that is, since the date of your letter   I see you have had it very heavy indeed   I see a piece in the Tribune, about a new book,                  a history of the Campaigns of the Ninth Corps   I send it, for George   but it may be he has already seen it in the paper.              I am glad you treated Emmy Price so kindly                    they were so hospitable to me   I should think it would be pretty hard to reach you up there on the hill,                  so you can't have many visitors. I see young Van Brunt Bergen                 here last week,                  he is in Jeff's office, the Water Works. I havn't seen Julius Mason for a long while   I think he must have left here. The O'Connors are all well as usual   I was there to tea Sunday evening.              We have had very rough weather here too   Sunday it snowed hard,                  & the wind blew in gusts, with now & then quite a gale. After dinner,                  I started to go to the Hospital, as I had provided a big molasses pound cake for supper   but the snow was too hard, & the wind right in my face, & I gave it up   I postponed going till next day.              I spend quite a good deal of time, evenings & Sundays, in the office at my desk,                  as I can get in the Treasury Building any time, as the doorkeepers all know me   nearly all of them are broken down or one-legged soldiers   The office is warm & nice,                  with gas, & all the modern improvements   & I am all alone. I would like you to see our rooms   they are a suite of seven rooms, all in a row, or rather in the shape of an L,                  each room opening from the other   five of them are very large & high   one is the library,                  filled with books of law, mostly   but we have five or six hundred miscellaneous works   I have described to you before, my desk & window looking out south, down the Potomac.                  In the Attorney General's room, there are nearly a hundred pictures,                  portraits of all the different Attorney Generals, from the days of Washington.              I went round one evening last week to see Mrs. Mix.                 Poor old woman, yet she bears up bravely   it was real affecting   Mother,                  she makes me think of grandmother Whitman in her last days                    She & all of them are going to scatter   the house was all in confusion,                  every thing torn up, & things being boxed up to be taken away   Mrs. Mix is going to Brooklyn to live with her granddaughter Mrs. Haskell,                  (that is Mrs. Graysons daughter that married the young man, the protegé of Mr. Beecher.)                                 The poor old lady said she was going on the train from Here to New York, last Friday night   but it was so bitter cold, & snow on the track, I hardly think she went then   but I havnt heard yet   Living here for her or any of them is a perfect hell   I have heard that old Grayson is just as bad since his wife's death as ever   he gets drunk, & then tries to choke his son & daughter, & ends by getting in a fury,                  & trying to beat every body out of the house   but enough of the old villain.              Mother, I will write to you old Mrs. Mix's address in Brooklyn.              To-day we are having it quite bright & pleasant   I am feeling well as usual   It looks like winter at the far north as I look from my window   every thing as far as the eye can reach is white with a deep snow   Ashton, the Assistant Attorney Gen'l, has just had a bad fall on the sidewalk,                  cut his face badly, & stunned him   will lay him up a few days   Love to Jeff &                  Mat & all.               Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/tex.00185.html," Walt Whitman to John Jay Knox ,","Jan 28, 1867",0.351557187542,"  Attorney General's Office, Washington. Jan 28 1867 Mr. Knox,              The Copy of Opinion of Mr. Attorney Gen. Bates, in title case, will be sent up to you                 at 2 o'clock, according to your request.                  Yours,                 Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/tex.00186.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jan 29, 1867",0.351693186455,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington.                     Tuesday noon, Jan. 29, 1867.                                  Dearest mother,              I wrote to Han last Saturday. I hope you manage to keep comfortable this cold                 winter   it must be pretty tough up there on that bleak hill   It has been                 very cold here, but I have not minded it   My thick overcoat that Nelson made comes in first-rate this winter   it is                 quite good yet   I have not bought any new clothes for a long                 while   suppose I must get some next spring. There is a Bill before Congress to give extra pay to the clerks   if it passes I                 shall have something extra, too   but I make no calculations on it, for I think                 it quite uncertain. The debates in Congress now are quite exciting   sometimes                 they hold their sessions quite late in the night, & things get to be quite                 stormy. William Hunter (who is in the House, from Brooklyn, to fill out James                 Humphrey's term)                 called a Republican member ""a liar""   so the Speaker had Mr. Hunter up before                 him & gave him a formal reprimand   it was last Saturday. Mrs. Mix went that cold Friday night, twelve days ago   I have                 not heard from her. It was a bad night for a journey, & the track was blocked                 with snow. I receive letters from the soldiers every now & then. Within a week I have had                 two invitations   one is from a young fellow named Alfred Pratt. I knew him in one of the hospitals two years ago,                 & more. His folks are farming people out in northwestern New York, near the                 shores of Lake Erie   he writes half the letter, & his father & mother                 write the other half, inviting me to come there & pay them a visit   the                 parents say they ""will do every thing they can to make a country visit                 agreeable""   the letter is very old fashioned, but very good. Then I had                 another invitation, from a Michigan boy. He has got married, & has a small farm,                 not far from Detroit. Do you remember Lewis Brown, the Maryland boy, who had such a time                 with his leg, & had it amputated at last in Armory Square hospital? He is quite                 well otherwise, & has got a place in the Treasury Dep't. I send the                 advertisement of the new book about the Ninth Corps   if George wants it, I                 think he can find it at the American News Co. 121 Nassau st. New York   We have ill luck among the clerks &c in                 our office   I send a little slip from the Washington Star   then another                 clerk, Mr. Rowland, is lying very sick. It is doubtful if he recovers. Wm. O'Connor has just                 been in to see me   He is well & flourishing.  Walt.              Mother, no letter from you the past week    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00255.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Feb 5, 1867",0.352645178839,"  Attorney General's Office, Washington. Tuesday afternoon Feb. 5, 1867.                                  Dearest mother,              I received your letter of Sunday week, Jan. 26   Mother, I hope that lameness in                 the wrist is better by this time. There is no news to write you this                 time   I have heard that old Mrs. Mix got through safe to Brooklyn the next                     day    I                 looked for Jeff, but he didn't come    When you write, tell                 me how Jeff is    I suppose you have had a great change in the weather in Brooklyn   we have                 here   for several days past, it has been thawing & melting   Here in                 the office, it is the same old story   it is now about 12 o'clock   the                 Attorney Gen'l. & Ashton have gone to the Supreme Court   they go most                 every day now from 11 till 2   & I have little or nothing to do a good deal                 of the time when they are away    Mother, write whether Jeff got the books, for himself & Dr. Ruggles   write how Hattie is   Well, the                 sun is shining, & as I look out this morning on the Potomac, I see the ice is                 broke up, & the river is all open   I hope we shall have but little more                 cold weather   I have not had a very agreeable winter   I have not had a                 satisfactory room & arrangements   I think I shall look around & get                 one more suitable    Mother, do you still have the office partly in your house   there in the long                 room? Sometimes I feel as though I want to come home for about a week   I think it                 quite likely I shall come before long   I should not be able to stay longer than                 a week   I will tell you though, in time    Well, mother dear, I believe that is all this time. Give my love to George, &                 Jeff & Mat.  Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01942.html," Charles Warren Stoddard to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 8, 1867",0.353053175575,"image 1image 2image 3image 4image 5  To Walt Whitman. Poet..                     My very dear Sir                  If you will reply to this I shall be satisfied; and where one is so easily made happy   will you grudge a little inconvenience? I should be very proud of your autograph, and because I know it to be a healthful pleasure I anticipate my hearo-worship is pardonable. You are well known here and much talked of   and we are looking for a fresh edition of your poems. How long must we wait? I am approaching my                                                                 twenty-fourth birthday   and stand upon the order of printing a small selection of my own rhymes   being assisted in this (perhaps unwise move) by my friends. May I send you a copy of my book in June?   when it will be safely out. D. V. Please answer me   if possible, and be sure   if you so far honor me   I shall thank your indulgence, rather than mistrust that my verses have afforded you any pleasure.                      I am, dear Sir                        Yours faithfully                     Chas. W. Stoddard..                                              San Francisco   Cal.                         8th Feb   1867.                                       MY FRIEND                         I have a friend who is so true to me,                         We may not parted be.                          Though I strayed, on to the uttermost,                         Yet is his voice not lost.                          If I am madly-deaf for having erred,                         Still may I hear his word.                          If sin hath slain mine honor, straight appears,                         The river of his tears,                          Wherein I find redemption: tenderly                         He woos my fear away,                          And searches out some star of hope, above,                         So boundless in his love.                          When from the loathed grave I shall arise,                         He'll hail me from the skies.                          Who else would seek me in corruption's dress                         With a so kind caress?                          Though I am weak, there is a hope of power;                         He is my mighty tower;                          Like as a flame to fright the gloom away;                         He is my perfect day.                          I am the homely bulb that tops the reed                            He is the precious seed.                          I am the rudest shell the vext-waves whirl                            He is the priceless pearl.                          Thou art indeed my friend while ages roll,                         O! thou my deathless soul. C. W. S. AT ANCHOR.                         A sailor by the green home-shore,                         While seas are ebbing from his view, Doth all his earthly joys renew: He sings the songs he sang of yore;                                              He spies his little cot, he smiles                         With a full joy ne'er felt before    He holds that one bare prospect more Than all the summer of the isles.                                              The quiet home is his; the trees                         Sprang from the seeds his grandsires laid, Among the mould; within the glade The myrtles rustle in the breeze.                                              Above a treasured little grave,                         His earthly lost, his first deep woe! Not any land that he may know Beyond the purple of the wave                                              Hath such a jewel in its breast.                         He loves each rock and stream and dell; 'Tis only here he cares to dwell, 'Tis ever here he longs to rest.                                              This is his home of joy and ease:                         And better is the myrtle tomb Than all the heavy dusks that gloom The groves of spice beyond the seas.                     C. W. S. AT THE SPRING. I knew a cumbrous hill, From whose green breast did daintily distill                         A throbbing rill.   This is the artery, And further on the crystal heart must be,                         Thought said to me.   All other I forsook, To follow every twist and curious crook                         Of this wild brook.   Among deep mosses set, I found the glimmering fount that did beget                         The rivulet.   No other eye had known Its secret, nor ear heard   for it made moan                         Always alone.   I quaffed its water clear; Its limpid music babbled to mine ear                         With voice sincere.   Then such a silence fell Upon me, mantling me, as where a spell                         Is wont to dwell.   Yet fled I from the place At a rude rustling; and fear gave me chase                         In my disgrace.   'Twas a slim water-snake Slipt like an arrow through the shivering brake.                         And left no wake.   But cleft the placid spring And waved its flaming sword, its forked sting,                         In a charmed ring.                              *   *   *   *   *   *   *  So was the fountain spoiled Within its lucid walls a devil coiled                            My trust was foiled.  Chas. Warren Stoddard.                                              San Francisco, Cal.                                           THE SECRET WELL                         I know a well so deep and cool                         And hid, the crystal-hearted pool                         Hath never thrilled a swallow's throat                         Or sweetened a lark's note.                          No fainting stag, though perishing,                         Hath ventured to disturb this spring;                         No leopard with its fiery breast                         This fountain dares molest.                          No cunning silver-cased trout                         The sheltered source can e'er search out                            No tongue but mine may ever tell                         The secret of this well.                          I build about its guarded rim                         With added stones: I know the dim                         Still twilight of its mossy cell,                         Where the sweet waters dwell.                          For spirits go between us two                         With flasks; they brim with softest dew.                         I drink and am refreshed and seem                         As living in a dream.                          This well, that is alone for me,                         Is all a fount of memory;                         And every year that I have known                         Is as an added stone.                          My willing thoughts, as spirits, haste                         To draw the draught I love to taste.                         There is an ever full supply                         Yet who may drink but I? C. W. S. A RHYME OF LIFE.                         If life be as a flame that death doth kill:                         Burn little candle lit for me.                         With a pure spark, that I may rightly see                         To word my song and utterly                         God's plan fulfill.                          If life be as a flower that blooms and dies:                         Forbid the cunning frost that slays                         With Judas-kiss, and trusting love betrays:                         Forever may my song of praise                         Untainted rise                          If life be as a voyage, or foul, or fair:                         Oh! bid me not my banners furl                         For adverse gale, or wave in angry whirl,                         Till I have found the gates of pearl                         And anchored there. C. W. S. Cherries and Grapes.                         Not the cherries' nerveless flesh,                         However fair, however fresh,                         May ever hope my love to win                         For Ethiope blood and satin skin.                                              Their lustre rich, and deep their dye,                         Yet under all their splendors lie                            To what I cannot tribute grant                            Their hateful hearts of adamant.                                              I love the amber globes that hold                         That dead-delicious wine of gold;                         A thousand torrid suns distill                         Such liquors as those flagons fill.                                              Yet tropic gales with souls of musk                         Should steep my grapes in steams of dusk;                         An orient Eden nothing lacks                         To spice their purple silken sacks.                     C. W. S. MADRIGAL.                         A maid is sitting by a brook,                         The sweetest of sweet creatures:                         I pass that way with my good book                         Yet cannot read, nor cease to look                         Upon her winsome features.                          Amongst the blushes on her cheek                         Her small, white hand reposes:                         I am a shepherd, for I seek                         That wilful lamb, with fleece so sleek,                         Feeding among the roses! C. W. S. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00256.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Feb 12, 1867",0.353597171223,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington. Tuesday noon, Feb. 12, 1867.                                  Dearest mother,              I rec'd your letter of Wednesday last all right. I shall begin to look for Jeff, to-morrow   I do hope he will come.              I have just changed my quarters   I moved to-day back again to the same house Mrs. Grayson used to live in   it is now occupied by a Mr. & Mrs. Benedict   I have not got my old-room but a room right over it   it is in the attic, it is true, but I think it will be pleasant, & cool in summer   & all the quieter for being in the attic   every thing is new & clean, new bedstead, mattress, &c   I can't tell till I try, but I think I shall like it   that is, as well as one is apt to like                  any quarters here in Washington   I will write you how I like it in my next   I want Jeff to come & stay there with me   it will be pleasant & comfortable   it is 472 M st. 2d door west of 12th    Mother, it may be I write kind of sober sometimes, but I have been this winter,                  & am now, in as good health as usual, & very good spirits   So, brother Jeff, I don't feel a bit ""pegged out""   only getting old   most 50, you know    We have had another cold spell here, pretty nearly as cold as ever   There is great excitement in Congress   they have night sessions                 I went to the hospital                                   Sunday afternoon last   there is a friend of mine there that got shot at Cold Harbor in June 1864                    & he has had the bullet in him ever since   it was in a very bad place, the lower part of the stomach,                  just in the waist   last Saturday he had an operation & had it extracted   it was in, the length of my little finger   it was a very critical operation indeed   but he got through with, & is going to get well, according to all appearances now   There are lots of things left by the war, yet.              I hope Jeff will not disappoint me   the prospect, as I write, is for pleasant weather   & Jeff can stop with me just as well as not   Love to George and Matty, & all.               Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00257.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Feb 19, 1867",0.354549163607,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington.                     Tuesday noon, Feb. 19, 1867.                                  Dearest mother,              Well, mother, Jeff has been to see me at last   he left yesterday morning   I wish he could have staid a few days longer   He seemed to be well pleased with his visit, & I am sure it was a great comfort to me    I rather like my new quarters   at any rate they are better than where I was previously   they are very good on some accounts, & not so good on others   but one must not expect perfection. When you write tell me how Jeff got home   We are having pleasant weather here now   the ice & snow are all gone   Mother, do you see the papers much? I can send papers to you, only they would be rather old by the time you get them.  Well, mother, I left my letter awhile, & have been out taking a walk, & now return & finish my letter   It is quite like summer   I looked for an Almanac but couldn't find any to suit me   I am going out to Georgetown, & will find one there   I will send it to-morrow   The O'Connors are much pleased with Jeff   Mrs. O'Connor has taken a real liking to him    I hope this will find you relieved of your rheumatism   I send my love to Matty & George & all.  Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/njh.00001.html," Walt Whitman to Llewellyn Avery , Jr. ,","Feb 20, 1867",0.354685162519,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington. Feb. 20, 1867 Mr. Avery                                      Dear Sir:              In answer to your note of 15th, I would inform you that a small edition has just been published of                  ""Leaves of Grass"" complete, (including ""Drum Taps,"" &c)   price $3. I think Hudson Taylor's bookstore,                  on Penn'a. Av, has them   If not, I can supply you with a copy, by your calling on me at this Office.                               Yours, respectfully,                 Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00258.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Feb 26, 1867",0.355501155991,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington.                     Tuesday noon, Feb. 26, 1867.                                  Dearest mother,              I rec'd your letter day before yesterday   We have had some stormy weather here too, but nothing so bad as you must have had   I wrote to Hannah last Saturday   I was down to the Hospital last Sunday, & also yesterday   there is a soldier there very bad with bleeding at the lungs   it is doubtful if he recovers   he is from Harper's Ferry, W. Va.   He is not willing to have me write to his folks, nor will he write himself   his mother is feeble, & he says it would hurt her   he is an only son   he is in the 44th Reg. Infantry   He likes to have me come & sit a while with him   so I go   I do not allow him to talk much,  as it is best for him to keep very quiet. He is quite a southerner, although in our army   & takes great interest in politics   his name is Andrew J. Kephart   Mother, I tell you all the particulars,  as I know you will be interested tho' a perfect stranger. There are all kinds of soldiers in the hospitals,  some good & some the other thing. But there are always some that appreciate deeply any kindness & friendship   & it helps them along too, more than one would think. Mother, I suppose you got your almanacks    both are calculated for this region, not New York, & one is a sort of Catholic almanac   I saw it had all the Saints' days. O'Connor, & the wife too, were both very much taken with Jeff, & speak about him often. Surratt is here in jail   his sister Anna goes to see him most every day   poor girl. It is pleasant here this forenoon   as I look out of my window, the river looks fine   there is a slight haze in the air but the warm sun is shining   O'Connor has just been in to see me a few moments   they have invited me up there to dinner, but I believe I don't care to go to-day. I was up at the Capitol last night, to see the House in session, & walk around   there was nothing very interesting   they were debating some appropriation Bill. Mother dear, I hope this will find you all right, & free from rheumatism   Love to George & Mat & all     Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00259.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Feb 26, 1867",0.355501155991,"  Tuesday afternoon February 26.                                                      My dear Nelly,              I will be at the house in time to go with you & see the Capitol lighted.                  About the dinner, (thank you for your kind invitation,) I fear I shall not be with you to-day.               Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/duk.00390.html, Charles L. Heyde to Walt Whitman,"Mar 0, 1867",0.355773153815,"image 1image 2image 3  Burlington                     Mar 1867                                  Friend Walter,              Your letters &c have all been received and delivered to Han. Respecting her                 neglect of writing her aged mother, not the slightest apology can be offerd. I have                 been compelled for a long time to procure [a?] novel, for her ""Sunday"" reading   and certainly, if                 she spends Sunday this way, she can't write to her mother. It is reasonable to                 anticipate, from Mrs. Whitmans past robustness, [and?] present approaching infirmities, that she                 will never undergo protracted sickness, but her demise, when it does take place,                 will occur in a brief period. It may so happen that Hannah may not be permitted to                 see her mother again (although I trust that Mrs Whitman will live many                                                                                                        years to come. I have reasoned with Han, in this way, but without avail   Han                      realy                                                       experiences no outward sentiment or                 sympathy   This neglect [of?] hers is odious to me. I have told her frankly that it is                 impossible for me to respect her, in view [of?] this; coupled with her indifference, [and?] ingratitude in other                 cases. She drudges about the same   [""washing""?] now takes place three days of the week, commencing                 Sunday morning; and her appearance would disgrace any servant in the vicinity. It                 seems impossible for me to maintain any respectable degree of order   It                 has become more than constant controversy                        allmost                                       a fight. She has no respect for me, nor the least consideration for the                     [illegible] bear I have performed, in endeavoring                     [to?] accomplish an                 agreeable neat, and pretty home   I can go no further with it   We                 occupy but three rooms [of?] the house, and these are badly kept.                                                   ; my personal washing amounts to just 4                 pieces a week, with a pair of stocking and two or three handkerchiefs. I have three vacant rooms   I dare not let them, at a handsome rent, or             either use them myself professionally    A greater want of morals or womanly sensibility could scarcely be found and intellectual             imbecility    She has been some days, and succeeds in tracing 3 lines to her                 mother, in ""lead"" pencil   I grow indignant and exasperated   No man                 assumes so much household responsibilities as I do, and all but for two                 persons    Han speaks of visiting Brooklyn. I make no objection, although it will bring no                 comfort to her mother, I [predict.?] She is too thoroughly selfish   There has been a                 proposition also for my absence   a few short months, [illegible] run down my place more than [I?] would like to recover   So I                 shall rent the house   It is but a shelter since, I was sick; she deliberately turned                 the key on me, and I had to stay at my room all night   comment is                 unnecessary     C. L. Heyde              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00260.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Mar 5, 1867",0.356453148375,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington.                     March 5, 1867, Tuesday forenoon.                                  Dearest mother,              I rec'd the letter you wrote last Wednesday   It has been rainy weather again here, & plenty of mud   Sunday afternoon I was at the Hospital   that young man that was so low with bleeding at the lungs, Kephart, was easier   he was very bad just after I wrote last week   but Sunday it seemed as though he might recover yet if he had good luck   he has written to his folks at Harper's Ferry, West Va.              I went up to the Capitol Sunday night   Congress was in full blast in both houses   they paid no more attention to its being Sunday, than if it was any other day   which I thought a very good sign   the Radicals have passed their principal measures over the President's vetos   as you will see in the papers. There is much talk about impeachment   but I think it is very doubtful if there is any impeachment    O mother, I must not forget to tell the great news among Clerks (far more important than Reconstruction,                  or impeaching Andy)   that is, we are going to have 20 percent addition to our pay, for the present year   that is, I shall get quite a handsome little sum, back pay, & about $25 additional, a month, till 1st of July next   if I stay here. We havnt got the money yet, but I suppose it is sure    I like my boarding house very well, take it altogether   we have a tip-top table   & the folks are kind & accommodating.              The Old Congress went out yesterday, & the new one (the 40th) organized right away   the Republicans have a strong majority    It is dark & rainy this forenoon here   snow & drizzle    Mother, you must not imagine any thing about me   I am having good times enough   ""eat well & sleep well,"" as Dr. Ruggles says   & have a pocket full of money   which you can call upon when you want any   as I look out of the window while I write, I see we are having a little snow for a change   So good bye for this time, mother dear   Love to George & Jeff & all,               Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00261.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Mar 12, 1867",0.357405140759,"  Attorney General's Office,, Washington. Tuesday, March 12, 1867.                                  Dearest mother,              I rec'd Jeff's letter on Monday   I am sorry to hear you suffer so much with the                 rheumatism, & it is so bad in the wrist   Jeff thinks it is because you wash                 & do the rough work, & expose yourself too much   Mother, I would like                 if you would get some woman to come every week, or every other week, for a day,                 & do the washing, &c.   As to the little girls, Jeff says they will be                 with you, & bother you sometimes too much   When one is old, one is easily                 tired and annoyed   & I have long been sorry you can't have more quiet to                 yourself & rest. Every thing goes the same as usual with me   The young man that had bleeding at                 the lungs seemed to be getting along pretty well, till Saturday & Sunday last,                 when he had a return of the sweating spells   they weaken him very much   I                 was down there Sunday   He has been very dissipated though only 24 years                 old   I believe I told you he is an only son. We had a warm & clear day here yesterday   after the usual long spell of                 rainy & dark weather   Washington is nothing but mud    I took tea at O'Connors last Sunday night   they are all well as usual   have got to move, the end of this month   they have found no place                 yet    Ashton, the Assistant Attorney Gen'l, has gone on to Philadelphia with wife & child,                 to spend three or four days   I like my new boarding place very well, take it                     altogether    Mother, I am writing this at my table, by the big window I have mentioned several                 times in former letters   it is very pleasant indeed   the river looks so                 fine, & the banks & hills in the distance   I can sit sometimes &                 look out for a long time   It is mighty lucky for me I fell in with such a good                 situation   Mother, if it was only so where I could come home oftener, & see                 you & all   I have not thought any thing decided of the visit I spoke                 of   I will send you word in good time, if I should come   I should rather                 stop home, this                 time,                 if I come, as I should only be for a few days, not more than a week   I can                 sleep in the room George did   or any how. O, I must tell you I am getting a new                 coat   sack-coat, dark blue   I have pants of the same   & shall                 have to get a new vest   when I shall come out quite spruce   I had 6                 shirts made last July, & they are good yet   So much for the clothing                 department.  Jeff don't say whether you got my last Tuesday's letter, (March 5,) with the                 envelopes, &c.   but I suppose of course you did   Yesterday was such a fine day, I went off                 about 1 o'clock & had quite a jaunt   went to Georgetown, &c. &                 walked so, I got very tired, when I arrived home   We don't have dinner till 5                 o'clock   but I always take a good lunch in my pocket   the table is                 furnished with plenty, & good   Mother, I think about you a great                 deal   I think, what if mother is sick & bothered, & every                 thing   & I feel as if I should fly   I go evenings up to the office                 frequently   I have got me a splendid astral-lamp, to burn gas by a tube, &                 it works to admiration, (all at the expense of the office)   & there I can                 sit, & read &c. as nice as you please   then I am getting many books                 for the Library (our office Library) that I have long wanted to read at my                 leisure   & can get any book I want, in reason   so you see it is a                 great privilege I have here. Love to dear sister Mat, & little ones, & all.   Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/pml.00019.html," Walt Whitman to Abby H. Price ,","Mar 13, 1867",0.357541139671,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington.                     Wednesday March 13, 1867.                                  Dear friends, all,              I have just rec'd the letter of the 10th   I sympathise deeply with those of you that have suffered with pains & illness   but hope, from the wording of what you write, that it is now all over. Poor Emily   it must have been such agony   that kind of distress                  is about as severe as any thing can be, for human endurance   I hope Emily will try to go over, soon, and make a good call on Mother    Mother isn't well   she has rheumatism pretty bad   I am sorry to hear that Helen has attacks of sick head-ache   & that you too have been unwell   I do hope you are now both of you well, & may continue so. There is nothing important or new in my affairs here   I am still in the same Office   find my work mild & agreeable, & the place one remarkably well suited to a lazy, elderly, literary gentleman    The O'Connors are well as usual   They have to move, the end of this month.                  Mr. Parker wrote me, some time since, & I have written an answer & sent it. I still go to the Hospitals   always go Sunday afternoons. We are having a dark, cloudy, rainy time here, just now   not for a novelty   I have good health, & good spirits. I send love to you & Helen & Emmy & all, not forgetting Mr. Arnold   Remember me to Arthur, when you write   God give you health, in body & in spirit   Farewell,  Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/duk.00644.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Mar 19, 1867",0.358357133143,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington.                     March 19, 1867.                                  Dearest mother,              I got both your letters last week, & they were a relief to my mind   I want to hear whether sis got over swallowing the penny    don't forget to write about it   It has been cold & disagreeable here, and another snow storm   but the sun shone all day yesterday   it keeps pretty backward here. I went down to the Hospital Sunday   that young man Kephart was sitting up by the stove   he looked very pale & thin, but is doing far better than I anticipated.              I have written a letter to Han     I have received a letter from Mrs. Price                     they have most all of them been sick this winter   I see quite a good many notices of Dr. Ruggles' death in the papers   I enclose one printed in the paper here   taken from N. Y. Post   there is quite a long one in the Round Table, of March 16.              Every thing is exactly the same in the office, & with me   Ashton has returned from Philadelphia   he tells me, confidentially, that he has decided to resign, early this summer   I am sorry to hear it    I hope George will have good luck with the houses   he must take things cool   don't fail to write to me how every thing goes    Well, I believe that is all, for this time, dear mother.  Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/yal.00378.html," Abby H. Price to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 25, 1867",0.359173126615,"image 1image 2image 3image 4                  279 E. 55th st.                 My dear Walt.              Your welcome letter was duly received for which accept many thanks. I write now in great haste to ask your assistance in behalf of Our Ruffle                 Manufacture and if you succeed in doing what we ask, or in getting it done I am                 authorised to offer you a 1000 dollar check as soon as it is done! think of that. It is only a simple act of justice that we ask                  either The committee have just [revised?] the law concerning the ""internal Revenue tax and ""articles of                 clothing made by sewing from materials already having payed tax are exempted we thought our goods came under that head and rejoiced                 greatly but the Assesor says not so                                            Our Manufacture bring trimmings to clothing and not                 clothing. Now                      altho                                       we got the article patented and have tried in vain to defend the patent                 and put down infringers by law. The article is made in secret by unprincipled                 parties who do not pay any revenue tax at all, as they make no returns to the                 Internal Revenue Office, but are Jews working in a very underhanded way. Still we                 have to compete in the market with their manufacture. Our company always making                 fair returns each month and paying so large a proportion of the profit as tax, that                 in order to sell as low as those who evade the law, has left us very little scarcely                 enough to encourage                                                                     the manufacture at all. The tax on my part the last year was quite as much as I                 received    Well, what we want is to have them the ruffles exempted by                 the Committee                 before Congress adjourns either as parts of articles of clothing made by sewing or                 as a special article. They have exempted ""step ladders"" and several other things                 which I forget now. You might ask it as ""parts of articles of clothing such as                 shirt bosoms, ruffles, &c. made by sewing and of materials already paying tax"" (shirt bosoms are in the law mentioned as                 exempted, and I think they will easily put in ruffles if                 you can hurry up and get at                                                                     them soon enough. You see Harland right away and tell him about it and find out who the Committee are. and I guess if                 you have time enough you can get it done and I shall have the fun of sending you the                 check! In haste to get it in to-night                  Yours ever                 A H Price              The $1000 is to pay you for a big effort and the trustees told me this                     morning they would gladly pay it you "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/duk.00645.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Mar 26, 1867",0.359309125527,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington Tuesday forenoon March 26, 1867.                                  Dearest mother,              Your letter, including Han's, arrived, & I was glad to hear that sis's penny had a safe journey   I was very glad to hear George had sold one of the houses   & also to hear from Han.              Mother, all the news I have to write about my affairs, is the same old thing   we have had another long spell of stormy weather here, rain, & snow, & mud   In the office, every thing as usual   I spend a good deal of the time there, nights & Sundays   it is quiet & agreeable   It is likely Surratt's trial will come on before long   I have become acquainted with St Marie, the man who discovered Surratt in Rome   it was quite curious,                  & I will tell you when I come home. He goes here by a false name   he is very unhappy, & is in dread of assassination,                  from Surratt's friends   He came to me for advice, & wanted me to intercede for him with some                  members of Congress, as he says the government is treating him very coldly, as if they didn't consider                  he had done them any favor. I declined to mix up at all in the matter, in any way.                  He talked a good deal, & told me a good deal about Surratt.                  It is quite an interesting story, & I will tell you all about it when I come home.              It was so stormy, the walking so dreadful, (half-melted snow,) that I didn't go to the hospital last Sunday.                  I have rec'd another epistle from Heyde   one of his regular damned fool's letters   I never answer them, nor make any allusion to them   it was full of complaints                                                               To-day it is bright sunshiny weather   yesterday too   but rather cool   Congress is to adjourn this week   they have carried all their measures successfully over the President   I am writing this at my desk   the air is very clear, & I can see a great distance over the                  Potomac off into Virginia   the river is high & muddy to-day   I hope this will find you feeling well,                  & free from rheumatism. Love to George & Jeff & Mat.               Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/pml.00021.html," Walt Whitman to Abby H. Price ,","Mar 27, 1867",0.359445124439,"  Attorney General's Office, Washington. March 27, 1867.                                       My dear friend,              Although your letter I see has the N. Y. post office stamp, Mar. 25, I have only just                 rec'd it, (2 o'clock Wednesday P.M.)   I have talked with Thomas Harlan   he treated me very                 well. My impression is, there is little or no chance of getting Congress to pass, at                 this time, a special resolution or law putting the ruffles on the list of                 exempts   There is no Committee of Ways & Means yet appointed in the H[ouse]                 of R[epresentatives]   True, any member could offer such a Bill, & if it had                 powerful influence, they might suspend the rules & pass                 it   but there are too many, both in House & Senate, who would almost                 certainly object   one objection would be that ruffles are matters of extra                 ornament &c. &c. and ought to pay a tax, if any thing does    Still, I will try what I can do   I will see a few of the members,                 forthwith   I have one in my mind, I think may be the best one I can get to                 offer a Bill, & if he is willing, we will try it on   Had I known it when                 the Committee & House were cooking the Bill, I have no doubt I could have got it                 put in with the ¶ including shirt-bosoms, &c.   But that's poor                 consolation. There is nothing new or important with me. I am well as usual, & working the                 same, (not much.) Love to Helen and Emmy & all.  Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00262.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Apr 2, 1867",0.360261117911,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington,                     April 2, 1867.                                  Dearest mother,              I rec'd your letter of March 28   you must have had rather a dreary time this winter, the cold & storms,                  & being left so much alone   but now I think the spring is upon us,                  & I think it will be pleasant enough there all summer    Dear mother, I have not much to write this time   I am feeling very well   no trouble in the head, nor any thing, so far   I get along very well in my boarding house   the landlady is a young woman, from New York State   but she works in the Treasury                  & leaves things to her servants, black women   I like her very well   & the place is probably as good a one as I could get   In the Office every thing is just the same   Ashton expects to leave next May or June.              We have had very pleasant weather here this week   only sometimes the dust is bad   I went to the Hospital Sunday & shall go again this afternoon   Kephart, that had bleeding at the lungs,                  & pneumonia, is quite recovered   when I came away, he walked out a few blocks with me   there are one or two pretty bad cases that I go to see, yet    Washington is filled with darkies   the men & children & wenches swarm in all directions   (I am not sure but the North is like the man that won the elephant in a raffle)   I was glad you wrote about the little girls   Tell Hattie and sis Uncle Walt sends his love to them,                  & is coming home to see them.               Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01562.html," Walt Whitman to Benton H. Wilson ,","Apr 12, 1867",0.361621107031,"  [April 12, 1867]                                  Dear boy,              Your letter has come to hand. According to request, I send you immediately a few hurr[ied] lines in response.                  My dear loving boy, I wish things were situated so you could be with me,                  & we could be together for a while, where we could enjoy each others society & sweet friendship & you could talk freely.                  I am sure it would do you good, & it would be a great pleasure to me. But we must take things as they are.                  I have thought over some passages in the letter, but will not at present say much to you on the subject,                  in writing. One or two things I will say briefly at present   One is, that it is every way the best                  & most natural condition for a young man to be married, having a companion, a good & affectionate wife   & another is, that contentment with one's situation in life does not depend half so much on what that situation is,                  as on the mood & spirit in which one accepts the situation & makes the best of it.              But these are bits of cold wisdom. I must put something to you better than that in my letter.                  So I will cheer my boy [&] tell you again, Benton, that I love you dearly, & always keep you in mind,                  though we are separated by hundreds of miles. Remember this, dearest comrade,                  when things are cloudy with you, for it is true   & such thoughts are often a balm & comfort to the mind.              Write to me often as you can. Don't mind because we are separated now, as things are.                  We will meet one day, I have no doubt. Try to keep up the same brave heart in the affairs of peace,                  that I know you did when you were a soldier. A young man's life is a battle any how.                  Noble   thrice noble is he who steadily carries throughout the march, through defeat or whatever happens, a gay, unconquered spirit.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/duk.00646.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Apr 16, 1867",0.362165102679,"  Attorney General's Office, Washington. Tuesday forenoon April 16, 1867.                                  Dearest mother,              I rec'd your letter last week a couple of hours after I sent mine. I have written to                 Hannah. Well, mother, we have had a spell of warm weather here   & last                 night & this morning we are having quite a rain   I can see the difference                 this morning already   the grass & trees are beginning to look                 green   they have made a large flower garden right in front of my window at the                 office. Wm O'Connor is coming on to New York to stop three days   he goes on                 to-night   he may call on Jeff at the City Hall   but may-be not   H.                 J. Raymond wants him to come to New York & write for the Times &c   but I don't know as he will go    I went to a concert last night   Brignoli & Parepa   nothing very                 great    There is nothing new at the office   I went up to the Supreme Court last Friday,                 & heard the Attorney General Mr. Stanbery make quite a great speech   he is                 a good speaker   you would have liked it. I was down at the hospital Sunday   there was one poor young man, a Maryland                     boy, very bad from delirium                 tremens   (such cases are getting quite common)   this young man saw such                 sights & terrible things, he took it into his head that the Almighty was in a                 rage, & punishing him   & he just got on his knees, & remained so for over 12 hours, praying away for                 mercy   so the wardmaster told me   I sat by him some time   he told                 me, ""they"" went away while I was with him   he said he                 could hear ""them,"" a good ways off   but they wouldn't                 come near him while I was there   he got into quite a little nap while I                 remained   you know if the delirium tremens patients can only get a few hours                 good sleep the worst is over   they are rational on most things   One of                 these men, in the hospital, had an idea there was a great cat gnawing at his arm,                 & eating it   he had this idea for days & days, & of course suffered                 awfully   One of the watchmen of the Treasury, (formerly a Captain in the army,                 in an Ohio reg't,) is there in the hospital, with delirium tremens   So you see                 what troubles there are in the world, of one kind & another    We are quite busy at the office   have a good many people coming   so it is                 quite lively   We had a clerk here, who was a great nuisance to every body, a                 young sprig of a Virginian   he has cleared out, forced to resign   we are                 all very glad   it makes a great relief   all the rest of us get along like                 brothers   I like them all, & they like me.  Walt              If Mary & the girls come, you must give them my love, & tell Mary I shall                     send her a small package of books soon   I will send word before. Tell Hattie she must behave like a lady & try to learn   Uncle Walt is                     coming home soon, to see her    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/hyb.00001.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Apr 23, 1867",0.363117095063,"  Attorney General's Office,                         Washington,                         186 Dearest mother,                  William O'Connor has returned, & has brought me news from you all, &                     about Jeff's offer to go to St. Louis. I don't know what to advise                     about it   but feel as if I was rather in favor of accepting the offer. Jeff                     must take it cool, & not get excited about it   & after he has decided which to do, must go ahead for good, & not                     doubt his decision, or fear he has done wrong, &c   I believe that's                     about all I wish to say on it, at present. Wm. O'Connor was much pleased with                     his visit, & speaks about you & all   he is a good fellow, &                     has been a good friend to me.  Mother, I send you the Harper's Weekly, with the picture of Abraham Lincoln &                     the Drummer Boy   I think it is tip top   We are having warm weather                     here   I am feeling very well indeed   I was down at the hospital                     Sunday afternoon   the young man that had delirium tremens, that prayed so                     long, has got quite well   his                     prayers seemed to be answered   at any rate, he is well & gone back to                     duty   while several others with the same complaint, are lying there not yet                     recovered   One soldier, 12th Infantry, was dying while I was there   he had pneumonia   it was a very sudden & dangerous attack, only taken                     two or three days before   he had been in the war, & had been wounded                     badly   but sickness took him off at last   I sat by him about half an                     hour   breathing was very oppressive indeed   It was a fine afternoon,                     & very still in the ward   & off a block or so there is a big                     Catholic church, St. Aloysius Church   they were ringing a chime of bells,                     three or four bells playing a sort of tune, sounded loud & joyful   I                     sat and listened for a long while   the poor dying man kept looking at me                     with such a look     Attorney General's Office,                         Washington.                         Tuesday, April 23, 1867.                                          Dearest mother,                  Since the other sheet was written & just as I was going to enclose, your                     letter of Saturday came. You must not be uneasy about a place   there will                     be some way provided   If not one way, it will be another, I hope    So mother, keep a good heart   I guess I must try to come on to Brooklyn                     & set you all right     Walt.                  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/duk.00647.html," Walt Whitman to Thomas Jefferson Whitman ,","Apr 29, 1867",0.363933088535,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington.                     April 29, 1867 Dear brother Jeff,              I heard by William O'Connor of the St. Louis proposition   & as far as I could judge by his                 account   & since by your letter & Mother's   it seems to me best                 to accept the offer, & go, by all means    It is a great work   a noble position   & will give you a good big field. Jeff, I wish to hear about the family arrangements   whether Mother & Martha                 &c are going to stay there this summer, or not   (I hope they are.) There is nothing special with me, to write about. In the office, all goes on as                 usual. I still board at 472 M st. Love to Mat & the little girls. Remember me to                 Mr. Lane & Davis   So good bye for this                 time, Jeffy, dear brother.   Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/duk.00648.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Apr 30, 1867",0.364069087447,"  Attorney General's Office, Washington. Tuesday, April 30, 1867 Dearest mother,              I received your letter   also one from Jeffy. I wrote to Jeffy yesterday   I                 suppose it is for the best that he should go to St. Louis     as it seems to be a great position   I was                 much pleased to hear that it was Mr. Kirkwood                   who was the designing Engineer   & also that                     Davis  is to                 go to St. Louis on the works    Well, mother, about domestic matters   I hardly know what to say at                 present   Jeff did not say in his letter what was proposed, or how he & Mat                 thought of doing   I can tell better after I hear   But, Mother, you must                 not worry about it   it will be arranged some way    There is nothing new in my affairs   I have a little more work these days than                 usual, but get along first rate   am satisfied with the boarding-house as well                 as could be expected. Love to you & all, dear mother. I write this at my                 desk   spring is quite advanced here   it is a damp, misty, cloudy                 forenoon   but pleasant   I can send you whatever money you need, dear                 mother, any time   or can come on for a few days   try to take things                 coolly.  Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00263.html," Walt Whitman to William D. O'Connor ,","May 5, 1867",0.364749082007,"  Brooklyn                     Sunday afternoon, May 5th.                                  Dear William O'Connor,              When I arrived home yesterday I found my brother worse than I had anticipated. It is a case of malignant erysipelas, with great swelling,                 sores, & for a while complete blindness, now partially relieved. There are                 spells also of lethargy & flightiness   all bad enough, yet, as far as the                 case stands at this present writing, he will come out safe, I                 somehow feel certain. Mother is well as usual   defers every thing else, & does the nursing,                 &c. for George. When I came, yesterday, I found her standing with a cup of warm                 tea, feeding slowly with a spoon, to some one wrapt in a great blanket, & seated                 in an arm chair, by the stove   I did not recognize my brother at                 first   he was so disfigured, & the features out of all proportion &                 discolored. Mother put down the cup, &c. & began to cry   this affected                 poor George   yet I preserved my composure, though much distrest, as you will                 understand. The rest of the family are well. Jeff leaves to-morrow evening for St. Louis. It is                 cold here, with raw easterly wind. I met Henry Clapp in Broadway yesterday   he has a $1500 clerkship in a public office                 in New York   I met Edward H. House    also other of my young men friends   they are all very, very                 cordial & hospitable   I shall go over & make Mrs. Price a short visit                 this afternoon.  They all talk of you here   as of the good person, the desired one, exhilarating,                 whose presence gives sun, & whose talk nourishes   (I think you must have                 laid yourself out that evening.)              Dear Nelly, I send you my love   also to Charles Eldridge   shall probably                 remain here the ensuing week.   Walt              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00264.html," Walt Whitman to William D. O'Connor ,","May 12, 1867",0.365701074391,"  Sunday Afternoon May 12.                                   Dear friend,              My brother does not get on quite as well as I had anticipated.  Yet I still hold to the judgment in my previous letter. He has been, & is, very sick   has had improved spells, & then goes down again. To-day he is in the latter condition. William, I received the letter, with Ramsdells note.                  Also Allen's. (Also the first letter soon after my arrival here.) As to Allen, refusing &c. giving his views, reasons, &c. &c.                  it is perhaps one of those services to a thing, (precious, rare                  & precious, in philosophy, & life too,) rendered by showing not only how that                  thing appears from the point of view of intensest vermin & filth, exclusively,                  but of vermin & filth diluted with shallowness to the last degree that life will bear.              If my brother does not get worse, & no crisis takes place,                  I think, (as at present intending) I shall leave for Washington Wednesday morning next.              Mother is well, (considering). All the rest are first rate.                  Jeff is in St. Louis. Nelly, I send you my true love, my darling.               Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02001.html," Charles F. Wingate to Walt Whitman ,","May 19, 1867",0.366653066775,"image 1image 2image 3image 4image 5image 6  New York                     May 19, 1867                                  Dear Sir,              You will excuse the liberty of an entire stranger's addressing you which is only pardonable under the present circumstances. I desire to ask your advice to a young man who has selected the field of literature as                 that in which he shall labor as to what are the true principles on which a                 conscientious writer for the present American public should                                                                     act. What do you conceive to be the true need of the American people as regards literature and in what way should the young writer seek to prepare himself for supplying them.    Should he recur to the Past, and seek in the master's of Antiquity those grand ideas which though used by generations are not yet exhausted; should he study history and endeavor to gather from experience what the tendency                                                    & need of the world is of the present; shall he study the thinkers of the present, the Mills', Buckles', Spencers', Tennysons' etc and see what they have gathered as the results of past & present experiences or finally shall he abandon books altogether and plunging into the vortex of human life, strive by actual contact with the people to find what they desire, and how to supply their want I know no one who is so competent to advise upon this point                                                     as yourself, and trust you will favor me with a reply.   I am yet young but have had more experience for my age than many Desiring to thoroughly understand the work I have undertaken I make these inquiries   My dearest wish is like Burns'                                                                            ""That I for poor Columbia's sake Some usfu' plan or book might make Or sing a song at least""                       I am Sir                 Very truly Yours                 Chas F. Wingate                      17 Wall Street                     W. Whitman Washington DC                               "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01564.html," Walt Whitman to Abraham Simpson ,","May 20, 1867",0.366789065687,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington.                     May 20, 1867.                                  Abm. Simpson                 My dear Sir:              I have been absent in New York & Brooklyn & only returned three days ago.                  I have rec'd your note, & wish to answer it elaborately soon. At present,                  I can only say that if you are going into publishing & if you feel like taking hold of my productions,                  I should cordially open negotiations with you   But the papers are in error in giving the idea that                  I am writing a book on a new subject   it is only a new & far more perfected edition of Leaves of Grass   which work, though printed, has really never been published at all.                  I shall be happy to hear any thing from you. My address is at this office.               Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01920.html," Hiram Sholes to Walt Whitman ,","May 24, 1867",0.367333061336,"image 1image 2image 3image 4image 5image 6  1867                     Albany                     May 24th                                  Mr Walt Whitman,              You may be surprised in receiving this from me but seeing your name in the paper the other day I could not resist the temptation of writing to you. You undoubtedly can bring to mind the gloomy winter of 1'62 and    3 and of your many visits to the different Hospitals in and about Washington I was an inmate of Armory Square Hospital and always occupied a bed by the side of Louis K. Brown                                                                     the boy that suffered so much with a ""Compound Fracture"" of the leg and after laying months and months had it amputated at last My kind friend (for so you must permit me to call you) I have thought of you many times since I left Washington and how well can I remember you as you came into the Wards with the Haversack under your arm giving some little nesessary here, a kind word there, and when you came to Louis bed and mine how cordialy you grasped our  hands and anxiously                                                                                   enquired into our condition. I thank you for all this and you in your lonely moments                 must be happy in thinking of the good you have done to the many suffering ones                 during the war I will now close for perhaps you may never receive this but if you do let me hear             from you if it is convenient. May God bless you kind friend and in [illegible] through [illegible] you have the kindest regards of your humble servant,  Hiram Sholes                 AlbanyN. Y.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01565.html," Walt Whitman to Hiram Sholes ,","May 30, 1867",0.368149054808,"  Dear friend Hiram,              Your letter of 27th May has come safe to hand, & I was truly glad to hear from you.                  Hiram, you must not think I have forgotten you, for I have thought of you too                  many times since the days we used to see each other there in the Hospital.                  Lewis Brown is well. I see him often. He has a place here as Clerk, at $1200 a year.                  He is in the 4th Auditor's Office, Treasury Department, & that is his address.                  Did you know Adrian Bartlett   in Ward K? He is also a clerk in 4th Auditor's.                  Thompson, the one so low with diarrhea, went home to New Jersey,                  & I have never heard from him since. Taber was killed in one of the Battles of the Wilderness.                  Shot in the head & fell instantly. Tom Sawyer, (Lewy Brown's friend),                  passed safe through the war   but we have not heard from him now for two years.                  Dr. Bliss is practising here in Washington. Dr Bowen also. Old Armory Square                  is now used as an Army Clothing depot. Of course all the big hospitals are                  long broken up   there now remain only the Post Hospital, U. S. A. on K st.                  & two or three small regimental hospitals in & around the city.              As to me & my fortunes I am in pretty good health, thank God   & I am working in the Attorney General's office (as the heading of this letter.)                 It is an easy kind of place   the other clerks are all young men, friendly              & jovial   So I have things pleasant enough. The pay is 1000 a year. Miss Lowell is still around   is interested in the African schools.                  Lewy Brown has just been in to see me   he says he wrote two letters                  & wrote to your mother   Joe Harris often asks for you & is doing well   is in the State Office   Mrs & Miss Martins are well.              Curly, at last accounts, was home in Ohio. Cate is home in New Hampshire   he has been committing matrimony   & is now supposed to be suffering                  the consequences   poor reckless young man   Mrs. Wright is at Flushing, L. I., New York. She is in the Soldiers' orphan home.              Hiram, you ought to have put in your letter how you got along with your leg since,                  & how you are now in health, & how you are situated.                  I want to hear all about you generally   all the particulars.              Well I believe that is all this time. I send you my love, dear friend                  & soldier, & I hope this will find you well in health & in good spirits.                  So God bless you, boy, & for the present I must bid you Farewell    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/duk.00391.html, Charles L. Heyde to Walt Whitman,"Jun 0, 1867",0.36828505372,"image 1image 2image 3image 4  Burlington                     June 1867                                  Walter Whitman              Your letters etc, to your sister are received   and have been duly handed to                 her    When I peruse her mother's letters to you, and note the infirmity of the hand, I                 experience considerable indignation at a daughter, who comparatively well, and                 having ample time and convenience, so far deliberately continues to neglect her                 obligation to the same, and in fact exhibiting [no?] emotion. But it is only a matter of a time, (or pecuniary considerations [how?] much longer I shall                 tolerate the personal indignities I recieve. To state the latest: this morning (Sunday) I got up and prepared my own breakfast as                 usual (and after having went over my garden (until 10 o'clock,                                                                    I quietly took a chair and sat down to                 enjoy a perusal of the New York Times. Han occupied another window, in her most                 negligent manner, peeping through the blinds at church goers; and because I did not                 look up at every remark and chafed some at the interrogation (which should have                 ceased) I was attacked with the usual personalities. I threw down the paper                 indignantly, and seizing my boots and coat retired to the kitchen, and shut the                 door, to escape further [provocation?] and to prepare to leave the house. But I was pursued there, and could not escape without forcing my way; but I came out                 of the encounter with the back of my right hand so badly lacerated by her nails, that I am                 compelled to bandage it. And this is from your gentle seeming, simple seeming                     sister,                                                                     who is so                 plausible and ductile before strangers    I procured her a book from the library, last evening, for her Sunday's reading (a                 novel) and managed all for her comfort as well as I could. She wound up her most miserable outrageous                      behaviour                                       by mean inferences toward a poor child of a girl, who now lies                      allmost                                       at the point of death and whose has been declining for months   And whose                 brothers, [3?] good, kind                 hearted men have helped me often (with material aid) in my struggles in this                 place. I sent a flower to her, the other day, of a kind she had craved when she was in                 health, and a pupil under my care   And this was [referred?] to   But it is a mean [illegible] subterfuge, and Han lies   knowingly   She                 knows how this family has befriended   But Han has                                    no gratitude within                 herself   and never had any sympathy for me. I never urged her to marry yet I have ever treated her in purest principle. I have                 nursed her in sickness, made every thing as agreeable and convenient as possible for                 her household work   taken half a woman's work upon myself. I have                 struggled within myself and solely. She is too mean. She is                 unjust   a liar, [slovenly?] at times, without a parallel, for a woman without                 children. She is for herself, and herself only. I meet with much respect from the citizens of this place, and increasing             encouragement   I shall exhibit my hand to a person, with whom she once                 lived. It will scarcely be credited, the persistent, vulgar and provoking meanness I                 have so long endured.  C. L. Heyde              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01921.html," Hiram Sholes to Walt Whitman ,","Jun 8, 1867",0.369373045016,"image 1image 2image 3image 4image 5image 6image 7image 8  Albany,                     June, 8th, 1867                                  Dear Friend Walt              Yours of May 30th was received some time since and I take great pleasure in writing to you again, and in giving you some of the particular in regard to my health, limb situation, &c My health at present is very good   better than at any time since I left the army for I had considerable sickness during the first two years after coming home My limb has never troubled me of any account                                                                     have worn my artificial nearly all the time since the winter of    '64. About one year an half ago I went to work in the ""State Lunatic asylum"" as an attendant, worked there some eight months and was taken sick, the physician told me it was caused by being confined to much, and so I left. I then went to Rhode Island where I had some relatives, last fall I came to albany and when the Legislature convened, obtained a position as watchman   it lasted about three months. This summer they are having a State     Convention I had a promise                                                                     of doorkeeper but they managed it so that I was unable to obtain it. It seems that the President of the Convention instead of appointing the doorkeepers by himself gave the delagates of each Judicial Dist a choice of their apointment (these being about one appointment to each dist) the Secratary of the Convention appointed a man from Oswego Co. as clerk (which being in my dist) threw me out of my position as doortender. I do not know what I shall go to doing now, perhaps something may turn up after a while. I was glad to learn that Lewis had so good a situation                                                                    I was verry neglectful in my correspondance with him and I am ashamed of not writing to him also to Joe Harris but I have one good excuse and that is, as you will verry readily see, a poor writer. During the time that I was in the Hospital in Washington I formed some acquaintances than I can never forget indeed I have thought of them often Mrs Wright, & Hanly. Misses Martin & Lowell and some others were the best women I ever saw and I wish them all the hapiness  and prosperity imagineable, there are other ladies to be sure that I feel under many obligations                                                                    too, but to these especialy. To you, Joe Harris, & Dr. Bliss I feel deep gratitude more than I can ever repay. The information that you sent me about some of the comrades was surprising Tobias the dresser that was killed. I have often thought of him and wondered if he came out of the war. I saw Tom Sawyer in N.Y. three years ago. [Cute?] I think has done remarkably well may he still flourish and perhaps we may yet hear of him as an ornament to the State in which he now so nobly [illegible]                                                                    I will now draw this to a close, and may I hear from you again soon. I am a poor writer and cannot furnish anything verry interesting to you to read only so far as my own self is concerned Remember me to all of my acquaintances and if any of them have any ill will on account of my not writing let them lay it to my inabilities instead of my inclination Waiting to hear from you again dear friend allow me to subscribe myself                  Your humble Friend                 Hiram Sholes                              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/uva.00350.html," Walt Whitman to Moncure D. Conway ,","Jul 24, 1867",0.375628994968,"  Washington,                     Wednesday afternoon, July 24, 1867.                                  Dear friend,               I avail myself of an opportunity to send you, by hands of Mr. Philp, just starting for London,                  a copy of my Poems, prepared with care for the printers, with reference to republication in England.                  The Introduction is written by William O'Connor. All is sent you,                  so that in case there comes any opening, you may have a proper copy,                  of latest date, prepared by me, to publish from. Of course I do not expect you,                  & would not permit you, to make yourself the job of running around & seeking after a publisher.                  Only, please take charge of the Copy   (I hereby clothe you with full power over it)   & should any good chance befal, it is what I would wish a London edition set up from.              Mr. O'Connor has shown me your note of April 30, last, to him.                  I wish to send you, as also to those other friends & well-wishers                  whom it seems I have in England, my true thanks & love.              Many serious & wonderful things have occurred in our dear country,                  since you & I last met, my friend. But of these I will not now talk.                  I also have had many deep experiences since.              Mr. Philp leaves Washington this evening, & I must hasten my letter.                  I will add that I remain well & hearty. For occupation I hold a clerkship                  in the Attorney General's Office here, of pay sufficient,                  & duties entirely agreeable & consistent with my tastes.              I may write you further, by mail, about the book,                  & other matters. Write me, on receipt of this. Farewell.               Walt Whitman.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/pml.00020.html," Walt Whitman to Alfred Pratt ,","Jul 25, 1867",0.37576499388,"  Washington,                     July 25, 1867.                                  Dear boy & comrade,                               It is a long while since I have written to you   I believe it is six months, or over   but you must not think I have forgotten you   I have thought of you often, & wished we could be together.              Al, I believe the last letter I got from you was last April. I went home about that time to Brooklyn, N. Y.,                  & remained home quite a long time   one of my brothers, (who had been a soldier & all through the war,                  in the 9th Corps,) was sick with erysipelas, & lay very low for a while   but has recovered. My Mother, & the rest of the folks, are all well. I have had good health since                  I last wrote to you. I am still working in the Attorney General's Office, here   I am writing this letter at my desk in the office, seated by the same old open window, where I can look out                  & have a splendid view of the Potomac river, & the hills & trees & banks, for miles & miles.                  It looks pleasant enough   but we are having it very hot indeed, just now   last night was very oppressive   then the air is so close & stale in the city in hot weather any how   I sometimes feel as I could hardly breathe.              Alfred, I suppose you read in the papers about the trial of John H. Surratt                  for taking part in the murder of President Lincoln. I went down to the trial, day before yesterday.                  Surratt is very young   I sat near him & looked at him a long time   he sits most of the time fanning himself                  with a big palm leaf fan, & watches the witnesses with his sharp eyes   & his brother, a young farmer-looking man                  from Texas, sits close by him. The lawyers on both sides are very smart   sometimes the evidence goes strongly against him,                  & then again for him. It is very interesting to sit & hear the witnesses & the speeches of the lawyers.                  It has been a tedious trial, & it is hard to tell how it will end.              Al, you mentioned about your father buying a new farm, last spring. You must tell me how it goes   & also how you are getting along yourself, for I want to hear every thing, & all the particulars about you.              Tell your father & mother I would write to them, but I suppose writing to you is almost the same.                  I send them my love, & a full share to you, dearest comrade. My address is the same                  as you directed your former letters. Well, I must draw to a close. Alfred, your love for me,                  & the kind invitations you have sent me, & from the kind father & mother also, to come                  & pay you all a visit, are fully appreciated by me. I hope & intend to come & see you all,                  one of these days. Write & let me know if you get this. Farewell, my darling boy,                  & God bless you, & bless the dear parents also.               Walt Whitman.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/pml.00022.html," Walt Whitman to Abby H. Price ,","Jul 27, 1867",0.376036991704,"  Attorney General's Office                     Washington July 27, 1867.                                  My dear friend,              Will some of you, the first time you go down town, stop at office (or shop)                  of E. Godkin, 130 Nassau st. & see if you can get me two or three copies                  of a new paper, the London Chronicle, with a piece about Leaves of Grass                  &c. I think it must be the paper for June 22   (though it may be June 29   or June 15)   but you must look & see   Godkin is the American agent.              I am well as usual   work in the same office   all goes on the same in the office                  & generally. Mother has moved to 1194 Atlantic street   (not av.)   opposite Hamilton st. You take Fulton av. cars. Ellen O'Connor is                  going for the summer to coast of Rhode Island   her little girl Jenny                  is afflicted with bad swellings &c of joints   appears to be scrofulous   William O'Connor is well    How are you all? Write me a good long letter   tell me all the news   all about the girls, & Mr. Arnold   & the last from Arthur, & every thing    So good bye for this time   I send you my love, dear friend, & same to the dear girls   & to all.               Walt.              If you can get the papers, direct them to me   Attorney Gen's Office    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/prc.00009.html," Walt Whitman to William C. Church ,","Aug 7, 1867",0.377532979736,"  Washington, Wednesday afternoon, Aug. 7, 1867.                  My dear Mr. Church,              In response to your letter to William O'Connor, I send herewith the piece,                                                                                            ""A Carol of Harvest, for 1867,""                                                                                for the Galaxy. I presume it will be in time for the September number. I wish, if                 acceptable, you would have it set up immediately, proved,                 read carefully by copy, carefully corrected, & then a good                     proof taken & sent to me here. I would mail it back again the same day                 I get it, so you would receive it next day. If practicable, I should like to have the piece commence on an odd-numbered page of                 the magazine   & wish it could come the second article in the Number. The ""Carol"" will make about five pages more or less. Please acknowledge the receipt of this. Direct to me, Attorney General's Office.               Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/yal.00125.html," Milton Kelly to Walt Whitman ,","Aug 9, 1867",0.37780497756,"image 1image 2image 3image 4  Oberlin Ohio                     Aug 9th 1867                                  Mr Whitman              Dr sir I take this opportunity to inform you that I have made my trip to Wisconsin and returned here yesterday, and will soon be in Washington and hope my orders will be ready by the time I return as you anticipated when I left. Remember me to Mr Pleasants and Stiths   with kind regards                  I remain yours truly                 Milton Kelly              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/prc.00010.html," Walt Whitman to William C. Church or Francis P. Church ,","Aug 11, 1867",0.378076975384,"  Washington                     Sunday afternoon, Aug. 11, '67.                                  Mr. Church,                                  Dear Sir:              I have not, as yet, received any proof of the Carol of Harvest.              I neglected to mention, in my former note, that I reserve the right                  of incorporating & printing the Carol, in future, in the copyrighted                  collection of Leaves of Grass. I shall not avail myself of this right,                  however, within six months following Sept. 1, 1867,                  without permission of the publishers of the Galaxy.               Walt Whitman.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01280.html," Francis P. Church to Walt Whitman ,","Aug 13, 1867",0.378348973208,"image 1image 2image 3image 4                   An Illustrated Magazine of Entertaining Reading.                 Published Monthly                                      OFFICE OF THE GALAXY                     No. 39 Park Row,                                                       New York,                      Aug 13 1867                                  My dear Sir:                              I send the proof enclosed, begging you to let me have it by return mail. You are certainly at liberty to use the poem in a book.                  I am Very truly yours                 F. P. Church                 Mr. Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01895.html," Scott & Williams to Walt Whitman ,","Aug 14, 1867",0.37848497212,"image 1                                        OFFICE OF SCOTT & WILLIAMS, BOOK AND JOB PRINTERS,                     24 BEEKMAN STREET,                                                       New York,                                         Aug 14th 1867                                  Walt Whitman Esq                 Dear Sir              We respectfully call your attention to the enclosed statement of a/c showing a ballance in our favor of $23.50. Your earliest attention will much oblige                  Yours Respectfully                 Scott & Williams                 for Kent              P.S. Any further orders you have will be thankfully received & promptly attended to   pleas send a copy of your Book for Mr. Sterne S&W K "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01704.html," Walt Whitman to William C. Church and Francis P. Church ,","Aug 23, 1867",0.379708962328,"  Washington                     August 23, 1867                                  Messrs. Church.                 Gentlemen:              The Weekly Tribune of 21st prints the Harvest Carol on its last page, but leaves out several connecting verses indispensable to the ensemble of the piece, & mangling it pretty badly in several ways. This is rather too much of a liberty. Would it be worth while to attempt a correction   asking the Tribune folk to insert in their columns an item like the enclosed slip   for instance?   As presented by them, the Carol is very much like one of those toy caoutchouc faces, with the mouth & nose utterly squeezed out   They ought by good rights to print it again in full, from the correct version in the Galaxy   but I suppose that could not be done. I only write suggestively, leaving it to you to decide whether it is necessary to take any action at all in the matter. This letter is not to be given, or alluded to, in publication should there be any.  Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/pml.00023.html," Walt Whitman to Gordon Lester Ford ,","Aug 23, 1867",0.379708962328,"  Washington, August 23, 1867.                  Mr. Ford.                                  Dear Sir,              Your note has been received. I have a vague impression, or memory, of some copies of the first edition of Leaves                 of Grass being for sale at Dion Thomas's Bookstore, in Nassau st. near Spruce, New                 York, some time since. Andrew Rome, printer, now in Fulton st. opposite City Hall, Brooklyn, did the                 printing of the first edition.  Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/prc.00011.html," Walt Whitman to John M. Binckley ,","Aug 31, 1867",0.380796953624,"  Attorney General's Office                         Washington.                             Aug 31, 1867.                                          Hon. Mr. Binckley,                                          Acting Attorney General.                                          Sir:                  The undersigned respectfully asks leave of absence from the 9th of September to                     the 12th of October.   Walt Whitman                  Leave granted as above  John M. Binckley                                          Acting Attorney General                  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01281.html," Francis P. Church to Walt Whitman ,","Sep 4, 1867",0.381340949272,"image 1image 2image 3image 4image 5image 6                   An Illustrated Magazine of Entertaining Reading.                 Published Monthly                                      OFFICE OF THE GALAXY                     No. 39 Park Row,                                                       New York,                      Sept 4 1867                                      My dear Sir:              I spoke to Mr. [Young?]                 about the Tribune's treatment of the Carol. He said it occurred during his absence                 & that he could gladly make on his own account the necessary correction &                 explanation. Enclosed I send a check for the poem.                  Very truly yours                 F. P. Church                 Mr. Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00265.html," Walt Whitman to William C. Church and Francis P. Church ,","Sep 7, 1867",0.381748946008,"  Washington, September 7, 1867.                  W.C. & F.P. Church.                                  Gentlemen:              The check for $60. arrived safely this morning. Please consider this a receipt                 for said sum.              I received, some ten days since, the six proof-impressions of the Carol   & am much obliged. (No copies of magazine.) I forward herewith another poem for the Galaxy. If acceptable,                 please, after correcting, let me have a good proof in time. The right of publishing Ethiopia Commenting, in                 future book, is reserved to me. The price of the piece is $25. I have, in composition, an article, (prose,) of some length   the subject                 opportune   I shall probably name it Democracy. It is                 partly provoked by, & in some respects a rejoinder to, Carlyle's Shooting Niagara. I think it might be                 specially appropriate to your purposes & scope. I would propose it to you for a                 leading article for January '68 Galaxy. Please write me how                 the idea suits you. Or, as I am coming to Brooklyn in a few days, perhaps I may as                 well call personally, & get your notions about it.  Walt Whitman.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00267.html," Walt Whitman to William D. O'Connor ,","Sep 15, 1867",0.382836937305,"  Brooklyn,                     Sunday, Sept. 15.                                  My dear friend,              I find my mother in excellent spirits & fair health & strength, considering her age, doing her own housework as usual. We have talked much about you & Nelly. I am not at all satisfied with the quarters we occupy, & shall make, probably in conjunction with George, some arrangements to have a house, or home for her & the youngest brother, before I leave. George is very well, lives home mainly, & looks & feels as hearty as can be   which is a pleasant surprise to me. I called at the Galaxy office yesterday, but found the Churches out of town   shall call again to-morrow or Tuesday. I saw Henry Clapp   chatted pleasantly an hour with him at Pfaff's                  over some lager   he was very cordial & communicative   I saw George Clapp   he is the same good creature, apparently not shined upon by fortune's bright sun, any more than formerly. H. C. spoke of the remnants of the old Bohemian crowd   expressed contempt for William Winter    called him Turvey-drop, &c.   Stoddard, Steadman, Aldrich, Howells, Garrison,                  &c. were mentioned   there appears to be nothing new to tell about them. Garrison is the man of all work on the Nation. Stoddard still has his place in the Custom House. Ada Clare                  is an actress   has lately been playing at Memphis, Tenn   is now about playing at Albany   Clapp remains as clerk in the City Hall   Spoke of your pamphlet   says he considers it absolutely one of the most vital productions in Literature. He read it through several times. It seems to have had lasting effect upon him both intellectually & emotionally. Says there is nothing of its special character, ever produced, that is, upon the whole, equal to it. It is peerless. Clapp speaks in a tone of seriousness & deference I never heard him use toward any other work or person    I have seen Haggerty   Just at dusk I was up Broadway, waiting for a Fulton ferry stage, when he came down upon me with genuine Irish warmth & volubility   I was glad to see him, & we had a talk of some fifteen minutes there on the street   He too spoke of the pamphlet   he said when he first heard of it he went down to Huntington's & bought a copy, took it home, & sat down & read it to his wife   when through he read it a second time   & then still a third time. He says he now regularly keeps the pamphlet within reach, & whenever he feels the want of something to rouse him up, & put his mental energies on the alert, he resorts to it. I have seen Mrs. Price   she asked particularly about you   Mrs. Rhinds is unwell, & has been taken home by her sister, to recuperate   John's book has been largely read   at least by those interested in L. of G. and its virtuous & accomplished author   & has had deepest appreciation & acceptance in good quarters. Show John this letter   I send him my love   William, I have not yet rec'd any letters   when any come, send them to me 1194 Atlantic st. opposite Hamilton st. My sister Mat & her children are here. Farewell.  Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00269.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Sep 21, 1867",0.383652930777,"  Brooklyn                     September 21, 1867                                  My dear friend,              As you see by the date, &c. I am home, on a visit to my mother & the rest.                 Mother is about as well as usual   has occasionally some trouble with                 rheumatism, but is cheerful & keeps up amazingly. We speak of you every day,                 & I have to give minute particulars of you, William, little Jenny, & all. My                 brother George is very well, looks hearty & brown as ever   much like he                 used to, only more serious   Jeff is at St. Louis, on the Water Works. Martha                 & the little girls are well   they are here in Brooklyn, occupying temporary                 apartments.  I am well as usual, & go daily around New York & Brooklyn yet with interest,                 of course   but I find the places & crowds & excitements   Broadway,                 &c   have not the zest of former times   they have done their work,                 & now they are to me as a tale that is told   Only the majestic & moving                 river & rapid sea-water scenery & life about the islands, N. Y. and                 Brooklyn, tower into larger proportions than ever. I doubt if the world elsewhere                 has their equal, or could have, to me   The waters about New York & west end                 of Long-Island are real sea-waters, & are ever-rolling & rushing in or                 out   never placid, never calm   surely they please this uneasy spirit, Me,                 that ebbs & flows too all the while, yet gets nowhere, & amounts to                 nothing    I am trying to write a piece, to be called Democracy, for the                 leading article in the December or January number of the Galaxy   in some sort a counterblast or rejoinder to Carlyle's late                 piece, Shooting Niagara, which you must have read, or at least                 heard about. Mr. Church strongly wishes it written. Mother & Martha send love, & I also,                 most truly   I shall probably return to Washington last of the week.  Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/yal.00107.html," Walt Whitman to John Burroughs ,","Sep 21, 1867",0.383652930777,"  Brooklyn, September 21, 1867.                  My dear friend,              I suppose you saw my letter to William O'Connor, a week since, with notice of my safe                 arrival home, & account of one thing & another up to that date. I have                 called at the American News Company store. They have not sold many of the                 Notes   not more than a hundred. It seems to be well-known, however, & often                 talked about. I have procured & given Henry Clapp                                  a copy, at his particular request.  I have seen F. P. Church, who treated me with great courtesy   he was anxious                 about the article on Democracy   wishes to have it for                 the December number   said he would publish the little piece Ethiopia Commenting   but thought it best to keep it back till after the Democracy article                 had appeared. I have not done anything further to the latter-named piece   but shall try to                 have it ready in time for the December number. I think it likely I shall return last                 of this week to Washington. I have not received any letter at all from Washington.                 H. J. Raymond is home from Europe. Give my best respects to Mrs. Burroughs   as I am coming back so soon, I will                 mention then what I have to say on the shirt question. I am living at 1194 Atlantic                 st. opposite Hamilton street. There is nothing specially new or important among my                 folks   they all wish me to give their best regards to you.  Walt Whitman.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00268.html," Walt Whitman to William D. O'Connor ,","Sep 27, 1867",0.384468924249,"  Brooklyn, Friday, Sept 27, 1867.                                  My dear friend,              Your letter, & the two accompanying, came safe. I saw F. P. Church again                 yesterday   the arrangement is, that Democracy is to make                 an article of fifteen or sixteen pages, & is [to] be the leading article of the                 December number   it must be in his hands by the 25th of October. The Ethiopia Commenting has been formally                 accepted, but is held back until the long article appears. I have felt that the Galaxy folks have received & treated me with welcome                 warmth & respect. F. P. Church is a sample of a New Yorker, a club man, (he                 pressingly invited me to a dinner at Atheneum Club   I declined,) young,                 cordial, refined, &c. He made no very decided impression on me, however   we                 will see how the acquaintance works & holds out in the future. The indirect                 & inferential of his tone & words in speaking to me would have satisfied                 your highest requirements   they evidently meant that in his opinion I was, or                 was soon to be, ""one of the great powers."" Nothing new among my folks, or domestic matters. I have been purchasing property, or                 rather becoming responsible for the same    William, you needn't send any more of my letters to me here, after you receive                 this   keep them for me. I shall return within three or four days   I shall                 write out & finish Democracy there, as my leave extends                 two weeks yet. I suppose you rec'd the Gazette, containing T.                     Titcomb, his opinion on such books as Leaves of                     Grass, etc. I think it very likely I shall return on Monday 30th. I have seen Fred. Gray,                 Nathaniel Bloom   the dear, good, affectionate young men   more kind, more                 affectionate than ever. William, I do hope, it will come to you to buckle-to, & write something for                     Putnam   et al. You are talked about, & cause                 expectancies, curiosities, &c.   F. P. Church sent a florid & evidently                 genuine message to you by me   the meat of it is, a fervid appreciation of your                 literary genius, & a special request that you write for the Galaxy. John Burroughs, I                 send you my love, & will soon be with you all again     Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/duk.00649.html," Walt Whitman to Dionysius Thomas ,","Oct 13, 1867",0.386644906841,"  Washington                     Oct. 13                                   Dear Sir:              I write to ask your kind offices in the following described matter: I sent to Doolady six weeks ago an order Mr. James Gray, Bookbinder 16 Spruce st. 14th floor, is the custodian of the sheets                 of my Leaves of Grass, & has been the binder for me. The sheets are now at his                 place. I hear that he has become involved   in fact has failed. If so, I regret it                     much.              I have been waiting now over six weeks for the fulfilment of orders I have sent him                 for bound books   & now, under that state of things, I suppose it will not                 be possible for him to do the work. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00271.html," Walt Whitman to Francis P. Church and William C. Church ,","Oct 13, 1867",0.386644906841,"  Washington,                     October 13, 1867.                                  Messrs. Church.                                  Gentlemen:              I write merely to say that I have finished the article on Democracy;                  (that will be its name.) I feel persuaded that it will please you thoroughly.                  It will make thirteen pages in Galaxy   the arrangement that it appear as leader in December number, being of course carried out.              It will reach your hands by or before Monday next, 21st.               Walt Whitman.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01283.html," Francis P. Church to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 15, 1867",0.386916904665,image 1image 2image 3image 4  Galaxy Office                     Oct 15 /67                                  My dear Sir:                             I am pleased to hear that your article will be ready by the 21st   a week from today which will be just in time.                  Very truly yours                 F. P. Church                 Mr. Walt Whitman              Did you see Tinsley's for October with The Carol? 
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01284.html," Francis P. Church to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 21, 1867",0.387732898137,"image 1image 2image 3image 4                   An Illustrated Magazine of Entertaining Reading.                 Published Monthly                                      OFFICE OF THE GALAXY                     No. 39 Park Row,                                                       New York,                      Oct. 21 1867                                  My dear Sir:              Your ms. arrived safely today. I expect much pleasure in reading it.                  Very truly yours                 F. P. Church              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01561.html," Walt Whitman to Alfred Pratt ,","Oct 28, 1867",0.388684890521,"image 1image 2image 3image 4  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington.                     Oct. 28, 1867.                                  Alfred Pratt,                                  Dear boy & Comrade,              I have been home to Brooklyn, N. Y. on a visit to my mother, but I am now back here again,                  and am well as usual, and working in the same place. Your letter of August 15,                  and the letter of Oct. 2, have both reached me, & I was very glad to hear from you & your folks,                  & to get such friendly letters. Dear boy, I should like much to pay you a visit,                  & to be with you                                   for a while, & to become acquainted with your father & mother   it would be a real comfort to me,                  & I am determined to come one of these days   I often think about it, & about you too,                  dear friend, & one of these days we will see each other again.              There is nothing very new in my affairs. I have had quite a pleas-ant summer,                  & now the fall is here   the past three weeks has been splendid weather here, both days & nights   but to-day there is a heavy rain   looks as if it had set in for a long storm       I am living at a boarding house, the same place where you come to see me, but new landlord                  & landlady   472 M st.   it is quite pleasant   mostly young people, full of life & gayety   then I go to my work at 9, & leave at 3   so you see it is easy enough   In about three weeks more it will be lively times here in Washington, as Congress is to meet then, & there will be some important questions brought up   but I take all these things very coolly   &, since the war is over, dont allow myself to get excited    You must write to me often as you can. I shall probably remain here this winter. I wish you to give my love to your father & mother. They do not seem at all like strangers to me.              And now Alfred I must bid you farewell for the present, my loving boy & comrade.   When you write, write to me about the farm, & the farm-life, crops, horses, &c. for I like to hear about such things too.               Walt Whitman.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/pri.00011.html," Walt Whitman to Moncure D. Conway ,","Nov 1, 1867",0.389228886169,"  Washington                     November 1, 1867.                                  Dear friend,              My feeling and attitude about a volume of selections from my Leaves by Mr. Rosetti,                  for London publication, are simply passive ones   yet with decided satisfaction                  that if the job is to be done, it is to be by such hands. Perhaps, too,                  ""good-natured,"" as you advise   certainly not ill-natured. I wish Mr. Rosetti                  to know that I appreciate his appreciation, realize his delicacy                  & honor, & warmly thank him for his literary friendliness. I have no objection to his substituting other words   leaving it all to his own tact,                  &c.   for ""onanist,"" ""father-stuff"" &c. Briefly, I hereby empower him,                  (since that seems to be the pivotal affair, & since he has the kindness                  to shape his action so much by my wishes   & since, indeed, the sovereignty                  of the responsibility is not at all mine in the case,)   to make verbal changes                  of that sort, wherever, for reasons sufficient to him, he decides that                  they are indispensable. I would add that it is a question with me                  whether the introductory essay or prose preface to the first edition is worth printing. ""Calamus"" is a common word here. It is the very large & aromatic grass,                      or rush, growing about water-ponds in the valleys   [spears about three feet high   often called ""sweet flag""   grows all over the Northern and Middle States   (see Webster's Large Dictionary   Calamus   definition 2).] The recherché or ethereal                      sense of the term, as used in my book, arises probably from the actual Calamus                      presenting the biggest & hardiest kind of spears of grass   and their fresh, aquatic, pungent bouquet. I write this to catch to-morrow's steamer from New York.                      It is almost certain I shall think of other things   moving me to write you further in a week or so.                  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/prc.00014.html," Walt Whitman to Francis P. ( ? ) Church ,","Nov 1, 1867",0.389228886169,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington.                     Nov. 1, 1867.                                  My dear Mr. Church:              I send herewith the proof of Democracy. Ask the proof-reader to revise it carefully, upon correction.              Please acknowledge the receipt of this.               Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01328.html," Moncure D. Conway to Walt Whitman ,","Nov 7, 1867",0.390044879641,"image 1image 2image 3image 4                           14 Milborne Grove, West Brompton, London.                     Nov. 7.                                  My dear Walt,              I introduce to you Mr. John Morley, Editor of the Fortnightly                     Review, in whose acquaintance you will find much pleasure as he will in                 yours.                  Cordially yours,                 M. D. Conway.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00272.html," Walt Whitman to William D. O'Connor ( for Moncure D. Conway ) ,","Nov 10, 1867",0.390452876377,"  My dear Conway:              Mr. Whitman has shown me your letter of October 12, with news of Mr. Hotten's                 proposed London print of Leaves of Grass or selection therfrom, edited by Mr.                 Rosetti, with an Introductory Essay or preface, by Mr. R. Now, in view of the latter, if I may take the liberty, I wish to speak of two or                 three points, or rather, enforce them   for no doubt they will, to a certain                 extent, have occurred to Mr. Rosetti. But as I have made Leaves of Grass & their                 author my study for the last seven years, & have had some fortuitous advantages,                 perhaps Mr. Rosetti would not consider it intrusive in me, that I send this letter,                 which I wish you to hand him. Considering the attitude of the public, and their average calibre, and also                 considering the general bearing of most of the criticisms on Mr. Whitman's poetry, I                 would suggest the expediency, in any forthcoming, friendly examination of his genius                 & writings, of dwelling pretty strongly on the following points, & making                 them unmistakably appear:  1st   That personally the author of Leaves of Grass is in no sense or                         sort whatever the ""rough,"" the ""eccentric,"" ""vagabond"" or queer person, that                         the commentators, (always bound for the intensest possible sensational                         statement,) persist in making him. He has moved, & moves still, along                         the path of his life's happenings & fortunes, as they befall or have                         befallen him, with entire serenity & decorum, never defiant even to the                         conventions, always bodily sweet & fresh, dressed plainly & cleanly,                         a gait & demeanor of antique simplicity, cheerful & smiling,                         performing carefully all his domestic, social, & municipal obligations,                         his demonstrative nature toned very low, but eloquent enough of eye,                         posture, & expression, though using only moderate words; and offering to                         the world, in himself, an American Personality, & real Democratic                         Presence, that not only the best old Hindu, Greek, and Roman worthies would                         at once have responded to, but which the most cultured European, from court                         or academy, would likewise, on meeting to-day, see & own without demur.                         All really refined persons, and the women more than the men, take to Walt                         Whitman. The most delicate & even conventional lady only needs to know                         him to love him.                      2. Critically, a significant, if not the most                         significant, fact about Leaves of Grass, is, that the genesis &                         fashioning of them have evidently not been for literary purposes, merely or                         mainly. Neither in mass nor detail have their pages been tried by the sine qua non of current literary or esthetic                         standards. Instead of that, the Book is the product of the largest universal                         law & play of things, & of that sense of kosmical beauty, of which                         even literature is but a fraction. This is probably the clue to the                         explanation of the puzzle of the widely-vexatious formal & esthetic                         argument involved in Leaves of Grass. 3. The idea, however, which is this man's highest contribution, and which,                         compared even with the vastness of Biblical & Homeric poetry, still                         looms & towers   as, athwart his fellow-giants of the Himalayas, the                         dim head of Kunchainjunga rises over the rest   is the idea of Totality,                         of the All-successful, final certainties of each individual man, as well as                         of the world he inhabits. Joyousness, out of such sure ultimate happiness                         & triumph, rings throughout his verse. He holds the solution of each                         & every problem   the spell, giving full satisfaction; and his                         talisman is Ensemble. This is the word that                         epitomises the philosophy of Walt Whitman. Add the word modernness, & you begin to unlock Leaves of Grass.  These are the points, my dear Conway, that I wish, through you, to submit to Mr.                 Rosetti. I have mentioned to Mr. Whitman my intention of writing him, & he, W.,                 has made no objection. I would add, for myself, for Mr. Rosetti, that I hope he will                 not be deterred from giving fullest swing to what I am sure I have discovered in                 him, namely, an intuitional admiration & appreciation of our Poet, by the                 ostensibly timid attitude held at present by the critical & reading world toward                 Leaves of Grass   but hope he will strike at that loftier, honestly enthusiastic                 range of minds & readers, which, perhaps by the time Mr. Hotten's volume gets                 well in the hands of the public, will prove the genuine audience Mr. Whitman is                 certain of. Again asking pardon of Mr. Rosetti for perhaps intruding these suggestions   yet                 placing them in any & every respect at his service should they be so fortunate                 as to strike him favorably   I remain &c &c "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01566.html," Walt Whitman to Michael Doolady ,","Nov 13, 1867",0.390860873113,"  Nov. 13, 1867.                               In reply to your note of some days since, in reference to acting as my agent, for                 sale of ""Leaves of Grass,"" I would say as follows: I presume that Anderson & Archer, binders, No. 6 Reade street, N. Y., have                 now ready 100 copies, just bound. These you can have, if desired, as follows: 14 copies, as I understand from French & Richardson, are due you, having                 already been paid for by you. The remaining 76 copies you can have at $1 (?)                 8cts [each], this is [incomplete]              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01876.html," William Michael Rossetti to Walt Whitman ,","Nov 17, 1867",0.391404868761,"image 1image 2image 3image 4image 5image 6image 7  56 Euston Sq.                     London, N.W.                     17 Nov./67.                                  My dear Sir,              Allow me with the deepest reverence & true affection to thank you for the copy of your complete poems I have just received from you thro our excellent friend Mr. Conway   & still more for the accompanying letter to him, in which you authorize me to make, in the forthcoming London issue of your poems, such verbal changes as may appear to me indispensable                                     to meet the requirements of publicity in this country & time. I feel greatly honoured by your tolerance extended to me in this respect, & assure you that, if such a permission can in the nature of things be used rightly it shall not be abused by me. My selection was settled more than a month ago, & is now going thro' the press. The only writing of yours from wh. I thought it at all admissible (with your consent applied for thro Mr. Conway) to cut anything out was the prose preface to the first Leaves of Grass. As for the poems, I felt bound not to tamper with their                                     integrity in any the slighted degree, & therefore any of them which appeared to contain matter startling to the length of British ears have been entirely excluded. But now, after your letter it seems to me that all or most of these poems, with some minimum of verbal modification or excision, may very properly be included: & indeed that there is nothing to prevent a reprint of the revised copy of your complete poems (wh. you sent to Mr. Conway) coming out at once, instead of the mere selection   subject only to modification or excision here & there as above named.                                                     Of course I wd. explain in print that the responsibility of this shabby job belongs to me   fortified only by your abstaining from prohibiting it; for such a prohibition wd. be sacred to me. I have just written in this sense to the publisher Mr. Hotten. I cannot clearly anticipate whether or not he will be disposed thus to sacrifice his outlay hitherto on the selection, & embark at once on the complete edition. If he does, it will please me all the better. I shall always hold it one of the truest & most prized distinctions of my writing career to be associated, in however modest                                     a capacity, with the works of so great a poet & noble-hearted a man as you. The time is fast coming, here as elsewhere, when to be one of your enthusiastic admirers will only be to be one of the many. I shall remember with a degree of self-congratulation that in 1855 I was one of the few.                  Dear Sir believe me most respectfully & truly yours,                 W. M. Rossetti              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00273.html," Walt Whitman to William D. O'Connor ,","Nov 27, 1867",0.392764857881,"  Wednesday forenoon, Nov. 27.                                  Dear William,              I wish you to come & take Thanksgiving Dinner with us to-morrow.                  Mrs. Benedict specially joins in the request. No refusal permitted.               Walt.              No outside guests   our own boarders only   all decent fellows. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/pri.00013.html," Walt Whitman to William D. Rossetti ,","Dec 3, 1867",0.393580851353,"  Washington, December 3, 1867.                  My dear Mr. Rossetti:              I have just received, & have considered your letter of November 17. In order that                 there be the frankest understanding with respect to my position, I hasten to write                 you that the authorization in my letter of November 1st to Mr. Conway, for you, to                 make verbal alterations, substitute words, &c. was meant to be construed as an                 answer to the case presented in Mr. Conway's letter of October 12. Mr. Conway stated the case of a volume of selections in which it had been                 decided that the poems reprinted in London should appear verbatim, & asking my                 authority to change certain words in the Preface to first edition of poems,                     &c.              I will be candid with you, & say I had not the slightest idea of applying my                 authorization to a reprint of the full volume of my poems. As such a volume was not                 proposed, & as your courteous & honorable course & attitude called &                 call for no niggardly or hesitating response from me, I penned that authorization,                 & did not feel to set limits to it. But abstractly & standing alone, &                 not read in connection with Mr. C's letter of October 12, I see now it is far too                 loose, & needs distinct guarding. I cannot & will not consent of my own volition, to countenance an expurgated                 edition of my pieces. I have steadily refused to do so under seductive offers, here                 in my own country, & must not do so in another country. I feel it due to myself to write you explicitly thus, my dear Mr. Rossetti, though it                 may seem harsh & perhaps ungenerous. Yet I rely on you to absolve me, sooner or                 later. Could you see Mr. Conway's letter of October 12, you would, I think, more                 fully comprehend the integrity of my explanation. I have to add that the points made in that letter in relation to the proposed                 reprint, as originally designed, exactly correspond with those, on the same subject,                 in your own late letter   & that the kind & appreciative tone of both                 letters is in the highest degree gratifying, & is most cordially &                 affectionately responded to by me   & that the fault of sending so loose an                 authorization has surely been, to a large degree, my own. And now, my friend, having set myself right on that matter, I proceed to say, on the                 other hand, for you, & for Mr. Hotten, that if, before the arrival of this                 letter, you have practically invested in, & accomplished, or partially                 accomplished, any plan, even contrary to this letter, I do not expect you to abandon                 it, at loss of outlay, &c. but shall bona fide consider                 you blameless if you let it go on, & be carried out, as you may have arranged.                 It is the question of the authorization of an expurgated edition proceeding from me,                 that deepest engages me. The facts of the different ways, one way or another way, in                 which the book may appear in England, out of influences not under the shelter of my                 umbrage, are of much less importance to me. After making the foregoing explanation,                 I shall, I think, accept kindly whatever happens. For I feel, indeed know, that I am                 in the hands of a friend, & that my pieces will receive that truest, brightest                 of light & perception coming from love. In that, all other & lesser                 requisites become pale. It would be better, in any Introduction, to make no allusion to me, as authorizing,                 or not prohibiting, &c. The whole affair is somewhat mixed   & I write offhand to catch to-morrow's New York steamer. But I guess you will                 pick out my meaning. Perhaps, indeed, Mr. Hotten has preferred to go on after the                 original plan   which, if so, saves all trouble. I have to add that I only wish you could know how deeply the beautiful personal tone                 & passages of your letter of November 17, have penetrated and touched me.                 It is such things that go to our hearts, and reward us, & make up for all else,                 for years. Permit me to offer you my friendship. I sent you hence Nov. 23d a                 letter, through Mr. Conway. Also a copy of Mr. Burroughs's Notes, Mr. O'Connor's pamphlet, & some papers containing criticisms on                     Leaves of Grass. Also, later, a prose article of mine                 named Democracy, in a magazine. Let me know how the work goes on, what shape it takes, &c. Finally I charge you                 to construe all I have written, through my declared & fervid realization of your                 goodness toward me, nobleness of intention, &, I am fain to hope, personal, as,                 surely, literary & moral sympathy & attachment. And so, for the present,                 Farewell.  Walt Whitman.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01804.html," George S. McWatters to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 6, 1867",0.393988848089,"image 1image 2image 3image 4image 5image 6                                        OFFICE OF THE Superintendent of the Metropolitan Police,                     No. 300 Mulberry Street,                                                               NEW YORK,                          Dec 6th, 1867                 Friend Wat              At my sugestion the Ladies of the Union Relief Association, through their Secretary, wrote to you, requesting your aid in a case of an advance of pension for the Widow of a man named Dyre, as we have received no answer, when the case was spoken of at the meeting on Wednesday, I said I would write and ask you about it. I have just read Burroughs on Whitman, and am much pleased. I could tell you a long story of my actions, for the relief and assistance of our Soldiers and their families, during & since the War, but don't want to bore you, please answer and oblige                  your humble friend                 Geo S McWatters              Direct to me at Police Headquarters, New York "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01878.html," William Michael Rossetti to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 16, 1867",0.395348837209,"image 1image 2image 3image 4image 5image 6image 7image 8  56 Euston Sq. London, N.W.                     16 Decr.                                  Dear Mr. Whitman,              The receipt of your letter of 3 Decr. this morning wd. have made me feel miserable were it not that before then the matter had already been set right, & my letter notifying that fact very nearly (no doubt) in your hands by this time. My first letter to you was written too much from the impulse of the moment; &, finding soon after from                                                the publisher's statement that the original plan of the selection could not be altered, I felt that it was also much better it should not be altered. I congratulate myself therefore on being quite at one with you concerning that point. Not one syllable of any one of your poems, as presented in my selection, will be altered or omitted: that is the first intention & the final result. Pray believe me however that, while I understand the latitude your first letter honoured me with in its wildest sense, I still meant to take all proper precautions before acting upon it. I wrote                                        at once to Mr. Conway enquiring whether he put the same interpretation upon it; & his letter in reply (18 Nov., now before me) replies   ""I agree with you that Whitman's letter gives you all the liberty you cd. desire."" I am now perfectly satisfied that it wd. have been most undesirable for you to give or for me (even if given) to act upon such liberty. To be honoured by your friendship is as great a satisfaction & distinction as my life has presented or ever can present. I respond to it with all warmth & reverence, &; the Atlantic seemed                                                            a very small space between us while I read & re-read your letter. I read your paper on Democracy (received a few days ago) with great pleasure & interest. I have always felt   & did so markedly while our own recent Reform discussions were going on   one main truth involved in your paper: That, after one has said that such & such people or classes are not exactly fitted to make the best use of political enfranchisement, one has said only a small part of the truth, the further point remaining that to induct these people or classes into the combined                                                                     national life, & to constitute that life out of them along with all other classes, is an enormous gain. The consequence is that, with the intensest respect & admiration for Carlyle, I find constantly that to acquiesce in the express views he takes of late years of particular questions wd be simply to abnegate my own identity. The selection goes on smoothly tho not fast   the proofs now approaching their close. I suppose the volume will not fall much if at all short of 400 pp.   You may possibly have seen the advertisement of it repeated several times in publications here, as enclosed                    (slip cut from the Athenaeum). The ""Portrait"" is a re-engraving (head & shoulders only, I believe) of the one in the first Leaves of Grass, wh. was a capital piece of art work. I have not yet seen the reproduction, but trust to find it adequately done.                  Always yours,                 W. M. Rossetti              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/njh.00003.html," Walt Whitman to Gilbert A. Tracy ,","Dec 19, 1867",0.395756833945,"  Washington,                     December 19, 1867                                  G. A. Tracy, My dear Sir:              Your note has been received. I published last edition of                  Leaves of Grass myself   & sell it.                  The price is $3. I send it from here by mail.                  Mr. Burroughs's Notes can be easily obtained by                  writing to the publishers, American News Company, 121 Nassau st., New York City.                  The price is $1. Thanks for your kind wishes.  Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01567.html," Walt Whitman to George Routledge & Sons ,","Dec 30, 1867",0.397252821977,"  Dec 30 1867.                                   Geo. Routledge & sons                 416 Broome st N. Y.              I have received the letter asking me to write for the ""Broadway"".                  I do not write much, but your invitation is cordially appreciated,                  and may serve as the spur toward something. I can at present only                  briefly say that should I be able to prepare an article, or poem,                  appropriate for the purposes of the magazine,                  I will send it on   & that I shall surely try to do so.              My address is at the Attorney General's office here.                  (New York house, please forward this to Mr. Edmund Routledge, London.)              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/prc.00017.html," Walt Whitman to Francis P. and William C. Church ,","Dec 30, 1867",0.397252821977,"  Washington                     December 30, 1867                                  Messrs. Church.                                  My dear sirs:              I shall be in New York, & will call upon you, 2d of January. By the way, would                 you please have the little piece, the verses ""Ethiopia Commenting,"" put in type,                 & a proof taken & ready for me?               Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00277.html, Walt Whitman to William D. O'Connor,"Jan 0, 1868",0.397388820889," William   bring in, in your letter to Mr. Rossetti.              I met Mr. Whitman a few evenings since.                  He has received your letter of December 16th.                  He duly received the previous ones also, making three letters from you.                  He is entirely satisfied with your action, & with Mr. Hotten's,                  in regard to the London selection & reprint, and seems pleased with                  the condition into which that enterprise has been shaped.                  He spoke with deep appreciation of you & your letters.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01585.html," Walt Whitman to John Swinton , 28 September (",") 0, 1868",0.397388820889,"   (qu?) To make a Personal item or ¶ for ""Minor Topics."" qu? To commence for instance                                                                                            ""With the bright, crispy autumn weather,  WALT WHITMAN again makes his appearance on the sidewalks of Broadway,"" &c &c                                                                                            (three or four lines on personnel as lounging along)  item the obstinacy, pertinacity or continuity of Leaves of Grass & of the personality                  of W. W. in current Literature notwithstanding all attacks & objections The poems have been republished in England, & are being translated                  by Freiligrath for publication in Germany. allude to the proposed prose work   ""Democratic Vistas."" Cant you put in the idea of an obstinate, tenacious, determined living man,                  appearing with a will, in our easy-going imitative literature. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01582.html," Walt Whitman to Lewis Wraymond , 2 October (",") 0, 1868",0.397388820889,"  Dear Lewy,              I will write you just a line, to let you know I have not forgotten you.                  I am here on leave, & shall stay nearly all this month. Duffy is here,                  driving on Broadway & 5th av. line. He has been up the Hudson river this                  summer driving hotel coach. He is the same old Duffy. I have heard that                  William Sydnor on 65, was laid up sick. I wish to hear about him, & whether he is well,                  & again at work. If you see him, tell him I have not forgot him, but send him                  my love, & will be back in Washington again. Tell Johnny Miller there is                  still a sprinkling of the old Broadway drivers left. Balky Bill, Fred Kelly, Charley McLaughlin, Tom Riley,                  Prodigal, Sandy, &c. &c. are still here. Frank McKinney & several other old                  drivers are with Adams Express. Staging is rather dull.                "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01569.html," Walt Whitman to Edmund Routledge ,","Jan 17, 1868",0.399700802394,"  Sent Jan 17, '68 probably left N. Y. Jan 18,                         '68                                  Edmund Routledge:                                  Dear Sir:              In compliance with request in your name in letter from George Routledge &                 Sons, New York, of December 28th & my own reply thereto of December                     30th, I send you herewith a poem for the                 Magazine, if found acceptable. For my own convenience & to insure                 correctness I have had the MS. put in type, & thus transmit it to you in the                 shape of a printed proof. The price is $120 in                 gold, payable here, and I should like 30 copies of the Magazine, sent me here. It is                 to be distinctly understood that I reserve the right to print                 it in any future editions of my book. Hoping success to the Magazine, & that                 my piece may be found acceptable for it, I remain                  Respectfully &c yours,                 Walt Whitman              My address is at Attorney General's Office, Washington City, U.S.A. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/yal.00126.html," William H. Millis , Jr. to Walt Whitman ,","Jan 20, 1868",0.40010879913,image 1image 2image 3image 4                  Bridgevill Del                                      Jan 20th 1868                                  Dear Uncle              I take this oppertuneity of giveing you this as an excuse for not comeing up to see you again before Leveing the city. on the same evening I was taken with a very severe Chill and the morning I was so sick that I could not think of staying in the city an hour longer. I come home and have been sick every since. My arm has come out in a sore were one of the balls struck it it is so bad that it gives me much pain that I cant rest but the Dr thinks it will                                                      be well again soon Father is very sick at this time. Uncle if I were to send you an aplication for a position in the Interior Department with recommendation will you please put them in for me and see the Asst. Secretary & urge him to give me a posison I have some recomdation from Curtain of Pa & my Captain. I will stop with the hope of hearing from you soon. Sister wishes to be remembered to you                  Your Humble Servant                 Wm H. Millis Jr.              
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00278.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jan 26, 1868",0.400924792602,"  Attorney General's Office,  Washington Sunday noon January 26, 1868.                  Dearest mother,              Well, I have been out to John Burroughs's again to breakfast this                 morning   we have a nice hot breakfast, buckwheat cakes,                 &c.   It seems to be regular thing, almost every Sunday                 morning   then we sit & talk, & I read the Sunday morning                 papers till about ½ past 10 o'clock   & then I walk down                 here to the office, about a mile & a half   Mother, I have not much                 to write about, only the same old story    I believe I told you some time ago, I had been applied to by an English magazine ""The                 Broadway,"" to write something for them   well, I have lately sent them a                 piece of poetry   if they accept it, I shall get pay for it   The                 magazine is printed in London, but sold in New York also.              I wrote to Han last Thursday   I suppose you got your letter last Friday   I have not had any word from Jeff yet    We are having some great speeches made in Congress   This last week, there                 have been debates in the Senate, & the Republicans seem thoroughly waked up                 & full of fight   they have                 had the best of it, so far, in the speeches   some of them were first                 rate   I am going up to Congress, next week   havn't been yet, this                 session   I went to Prof. Agassiz' lecture last Friday night   I was very much pleased    I pass the time very quietly   some evenings I spend in my attic   I                 have laid in wood, & can have a fire when I want it   I wish you was                 here   I am already making reckoning of coming home on the next                 visit   but when it will be, I can't tell   Mother, I would take a                 morning paper, the Times or something   it would help pass away the                 time   the debates in Congress are quite interesting now   Well,                 dear mother, I believe that is all this time.  Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/col.00001.html," Walt Whitman to Moncure D. Conway ,","Feb 17, 1868",0.403916768666,"  Washington, February 17, 1868.                  My dear Conway,              Your letter of February 1st has just come to hand. I am willing that Mr. Hotten                 should sell his English publication of my Poems in the United States, on condition                 of paying me one shilling on every copy disposed of here   & hereby give                 consent to that arrangement.                 Furthermore, to save trouble, I hereby fully empower you to decide & act for me                 in any matters or propositions relating to the book, in England, should any such                 arise   & what you agree to is agreed to by me. If convenient I should like                 Mr. Hotten to send me two copies of the book, by mail, immediately. I should also                 consider it a special favor if you would forward me from time to time any of the                 English magazines or journals that might contain noteworthy                 criticisms of my poems. But you must allow me to repay you the favor. William O'Connor is well, and remains employed as before. Ellen O'Connor is                 absent in Providence, but returns soon   their little daughter has been very                 ill, but is now convalescing. Our American politics, as you notice, are in an unusually effervescent                 condition   with perhaps (to the mere eye-observation from a distance) divers                 alarming & deadly portending shows & signals. Yet we old stagers take things                 very coolly, & count on coming out all right in due time. The Republicans have                 exploited the negro too intensely, & there comes a reaction. But that is going                 to be provided for. According to present appearances the good, worthy,                 non-demonstrative, average-representing Grant will be chosen President next fall.                 What about him, then? As at present advised, I shall vote for him non-demonstrative                 as he is   but admit I can tell much better about him some five years hence. I remain well & hearty   occupy the same quite agreeable & quiet berth in                 the Attorney General's office   and, at leisure, am writing a prose piece or                 two, (which I will send you, when printed.) I wish to send my sincerest thanks & personal regards to Mr. Rossetti. To have                 had my book, & my cause, fall into his hands, in London, in the way they have, I                 consider one of the greatest pieces of good fortune. Mr. Morley called upon me. Did you get my piece I sent, ""Democracy""? I have just                 received a letter from A. B. Alcott   he was with Mr. Emerson the previous evening, talking.  Remember my request to Mr. Hotten for a couple of copies by mail   also, by your                 own kindness, any English criticisms of value should such appear. I have not yet seen the February Fortnightly   nor the book William Blake   but shall procure & read both. I                 feel prepared in advance to render my cordial & admirant respect to Mr.                 Swinburne   & would be glad to have him know that I thank him heartily for                 the mention which, I understand, he has made of me in the Blake.              Indeed, my dear friend, I may here confess to you that to be accepted by those young                 men of England, & so treated with highest courtesy & even honor, touches one                 deeply. In my own country, so far, from the organs, the press, & from                 authoritative sources, I have received but one long tirade of shallow impudence,                 mockery, & scurrilous jeers. Only since the English recognition have the skies                 here lighted up a little. With remembrance & love to you, Rossetti, & all my good friends   I                 write, for the present, Farewell.   Walt Whitman.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01573.html," Walt Whitman to John Camden Hotten ,","Feb 18, 1868",0.404052767578,"  Feb 18   1868                                  Dear Sir:              In response to your letter of the 5th instant, which has just reached me, I have to                 say that I accept the proposal made in it respecting your English publication of my                 poems   & hereby agree that you have the privilege of selling that                 publication in the United States, on payment to me, or my agent, of a royalty of one                 shilling, (or 25 cents gold,) upon every copy sold in the U. S.              Of course it is distinctly understood that this grant from me does not affect my                 copyright here, but that said copyright, in each of its particulars & in the                 whole, is absolutely fully & exclusively retained by me. It is not improbable that a very handsome & steady sale of the English volume                 may be effected here, by the right business manipulation, a moderate, judicious                 advertising &c. My book has never been really published here at all                 & the market is in a sort vacant of supplies. I will probably suggest to you                 something more on these points, in a future letter. I received yesterday a letter from Mr. Conway, conveying your proposition, to which I                 mailed an immediate answer, to the same effect as herewith.  Accept my thanks for the William Blake. It has not yet come from the post office, but I know                 it will prove to me a profoundly interesting study, and a handsome gift. It is, in                 fact, a book I was wanting. After the reception of the copy you speak of   my own volume   (now                 probably on its way)   I shall doubtless have occasion to express genuine                 pleasure   with gratitude both to its editor & publisher. And now, my dear sir, please accept with my trust in the success of the enterprise my                 kindest respects to yourself personally.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01568.html," Walt Whitman to George Routledge & Sons ,","Feb 19, 1868",0.40418876649,"  Messrs. Routledge: Publishers Broadway Dear Sirs:              By your note of 18th, from New York, just received, I find that Mr. Edmund Routledge,                  editor, would (I quote) like to keep & use an original poem   three-page poem   sent him from me, but demurs to my first-asked price   that he directs you to offer me 10 pounds   which you can send me, $50: in gold   and that, (the terms being settled, &c.)                  he will advertise it very largely.              I accept the terms offered   $50 in gold   and you can forward me the am't as soon as convenient.                  I repeat, that I distinctly reserve the right of printing the piece in a future edition of my poems.              Sending best wishes & respects to editor & publishers, I remain. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00401.html," Walt Whitman to Anderson & Archer ,","Feb 19, 1868",0.40418876649,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington,                     February 19, 1868  Your letter of 13th was rec'd    Please find herewith a check for $31:50, which I suppose is the am't of your bill for binding 90 copies, Leaves of Grass, at 35 cts. Please put up 40 copies in good substantial wrapping envelope, & send me by express. Direct Walt Whitman, Attorney Gen's Office, Treasury Building, Washington, D. C.   Please keep the remaining 50 copies till I send some order about them. You have overlooked one thing. When I called upon you 2d January, we found a discrepancy in the two lists of sheets on hand   yours had it that Sheet B, 2d consisted of only 225 sheets   while my list had it that Sheet B 2d consisted of 325 sheets   I wish you to carefully count sheet B 2d & inform me how many there are   as it will decide how many of the deficient signatures of ""Drum-Taps"" etc., I will require to finish up the edition. Please acknowledge the reception of this, with check. (check for $31:50 enclosed) "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/prc.00018.html," Walt Whitman to Francis P. Church and William C. Church ,","Feb 21, 1868",0.404460764314,"  Washington, February 21, 1868.                  Messrs Church.                                  My friends,              I have now ready the prose article   (will make, I should think, about 14                 printed pages)   which I mentioned to W. F. Church, at an interview here not long since. I cannot give you any complete description of the piece   but will say that                 it takes up the subject of Democracy where the article by                 that name in the Galaxy of December, left it   and                 applies to Individuality   sketches the portrait of the ideal American of                 the future   also characterizations of the American                 woman   overhauls the Culture theory, shows its deficiencies, tested by any                 grand, practical Democratic test   argues that the main thing wanted for                 the literary, esthetic, & moral areas of the United States is to institute                 what must result in copious supplies, among the masses, of healthy, acute, handsome                 Individualities, modernized, & fully adapted to our soil, our days, city                 & country. The name of my piece is                                                                            Personalism.                                                                Don't be alarmed at the (perhaps at first sight) oddity of the word   it is the right                 title for the article, and will justify itself, & remain. The piece is a following up of Democracy   &                 is, as a literary performance, I think better than that paper   &                 will arouse more attention. Of course there is nothing in it which you would demur                 to print in the magazine. Are your plans such that you would probably like the piece for your April number?                 Could you print it positively as the leader? Please give me definite &                 immediate answers. The piece is all ready.  Walt Whitman.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01574.html," Walt Whitman to George Routledge & Sons ,","Feb 22, 1868",0.404596763226,"  February 22, 1868.                                   Messrs. Routledge, (J. L. Blamire)                                                   Gentlemen:              Your letter reached me this morning, enclosing draft for Fifty Dollars,                  gold coin, deposit in Bank of New York   of which amount, paid me, for poem,                  (with reservation to myself of right to print in future book,)                  you will please consider this the receipt.              Please accept my respects to editor & house   with thanks to yourself for promptness.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00279.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Feb 24, 1868",0.40486876105,"  Washington, February 24, 1868.                                  Dear friend,              Your letter reached me this afternoon. I am very glad indeed you are coming home   I already make                 calculations not only of resuming our old talks & good times, but of the much                 news you will have to tell   also of seeing little Jenny again   dear                 child, be sure she is not left out of account   Is Mrs. Channing with you then? I send my friendliest remembrances                 & good wishes. And to my ever dear friends, Mrs. Price & family   you                 know how much I think of them, & estimate them always, with love &                 thanks    It is between two & three o'clock p. m.   We have had a snowy day   as I                 look out of my window the ground is white in every direction   William has a bad cold, has not been down to work to-day, but has                 just come down town, & is this moment sitting by my desk, reading the extra                 Evening Star   the fight between Congress & the                 President, about Secretary of War, rages furiously   The House will doubtless order impeachment   & we are going to have exciting times                 generally   but I guess no appeal to arms    I have heard lately from my dear mother   she is well as usual   Emma Price                 can tell you more directly about her, as I hear, (to my great pleasure) that she has                 called on mother once or twice lately. I am well as usual   have not yet                 rec'd a copy of my English re-print   but hear that                 one is on the way   Mr. Swinburne, the poet, has sent me a handsome copy of his                     William Blake containing certain mention of me, which I will show you when you come.                     Hotten, the London publisher, has written                 me, very handsomely, offering a fee, on every copy   Rossetti, the editor, has                 also written me several letters, very satisfactory   I think you will like your                 apartments, after you get used to them   it is a fresh, sweet, new house   that's a good deal    And now, dear friend, God bless you & little one, & a safe & speedy                 return to friends & home.   Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01570.html," Walt Whitman to Moncure D. Conway , 18 ( ?","Mar 1, 1868",0.405684754522,"  My dear Conway,              I send the accompanying article in hopes you can do me the favor to dispose of it to an English magazine.                  The one I first think of is the Fortnightly Review. If not that, some other.                  I place the whole business, price, &c. in your absolute control.                  Only understand that the piece is to be published here in the Galaxy for May.                  Some English magazine for May is what would suit best. In haste.               "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/prc.00019.html," Walt Whitman to Francis P. Church and William C. Church ,","Mar 3, 1868",0.405956752346,"  Washington, March 3, 1868.                  Messrs. Church.                                  Dear Sirs:              I sent you ""Personalism""   which I suppose you received Monday last. I                 should consider it a favor from you to have the piece set up as soon as convenient,                 first proof carefully read & corrected, & then three sets of proofs                 taken & mailed me here   One set I will read, and return                 immediately. I think of offering the article in England, probably to                 the Fortnightly Review   but of course any thing over there must be                 strictly subordinated to the appearance of the article here first   that is                 positive. Can you let me have the proofs within a week or so? I think of asking you $100 for ""Personalism."" I reserve the right of printing                 it in future book. How about the little piece ""Ethiopia Commenting""? Will it not be practicable for                 you to print it in the April number? Certain poetical pieces of mine were arranged                 to appear soon in English magazine & I should like the ""Ethiopia"" to                 precede them.  Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/prc.00020.html," Walt Whitman to John Camden Hotten ,","Mar 9, 1868",0.406772745818,"  Washington                     March 9, 1868.                  Dear Sir:              I thank you for the copy of my poems sent by you. It has just reached me. I consider                 it a beautiful volume. The portrait, as given in it, is, however, a marked blemish.                 I was thinking, if you wish to have a portrait, you might like to own the original                 plate of 1855 which I believe I can procure, in good order, & from which you can                 print a frontispice more creditable   as per impression enclosed. If so, send                 me word immediately. The price of the plate would probably be $40. gold   or                 8 pounds. It would suit just such a volume, & would coincide entirely with the                 text in note & preface, as they now stand. If I receive your favorable response,                 I will, if possible, procure the plate, & send it to you by express   on                 receipt of which, & not before, you can send me the money. (I have sent to New                 York to see if I can procure the plate, & have not yet received any                     answer.)              I will thank you to convey to Mr. Swinburne my heartiest acknowledgements for the                 copy of William Blake, (which has reached me)   & for his kind &                 generous mention of me in it.               Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/prc.00021.html," Walt Whitman to Francis P. ( ? ) Church ,","Mar 10, 1868",0.40690874473,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington.                     March 10, 1868.                                  Mr Church.                                  My dear Sir,              I write a line to jog you about the proofs of Personalism.                  Is it being put in type? For reasons as in former note,                  I am anxious to have proofs as soon as possible.               Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/tex.00187.html," Walt Whitman to C. B. Sellinghast ,","Mar 12, 1868",0.407180742554,"  Attorney General's Office, Washington. March 12, 1868.                                  C. B. Sellinghast.                                  Dear Sir:              I publish Leaves of Grass myself   & send it by mail,                 post paid, on receipt of the price, $3. Address.  Walt Whitman                 Washington D. C.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/hun.00056.html," Walt Whitman to O. K. Sammis ,","Mar 13, 1868",0.407316741466,"  Attorney General's Office, Washington. March 13, 1868.                                  My dear Doctor,              Your note has just come to hand, stating that you intend a visit to Washington, &                 desire a situation. My friend, if that is your sole object here, & you depend                 upon any thing of that kind, (unless you have some special friend who has great                 influence, or offices at his disposal,) I seriously advise you against any such                 enterprise. I myself have no influence at all, being a mere clerk, & of low                 grade   & our office is in confusion   the Attorney General having                 yesterday resigned his place   & it being very probable that the                 rest of the cabinet will follow before long. They are discharging many of the                 Department employes, & appointing none. For some months to come, indeed for the                 ensuing year, every thing will be unsettled & in suspense here    There is nothing new with me   nor in our family.                  Yours, &c.                 Walt Whitman              with friendliest regards. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01576.html," Walt Whitman to Edmund Routledge ,","Mar 22, 1868",0.408540731674,"  March 22, '68 (Went 24th)                                  Ed. Routledge              In my note of January 17 last, sending ""Whispers of Heavenly Death,"" I included a request                 for thirty copies of the magazine, containing the piece, whenever printed. If                 agreeable therefore, please request the New York house to send by express, at my                 expense, thirty copies of the ""Broadway"" containing the piece, to my address,                 Attorney Gen's office, here. I propose, before long, to submit to you another piece, for the magazine, if                     approved.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01577.html," Walt Whitman to John M. Binckley ,","Mar 24, 1868",0.408812729498,"  Washington                     March 24, '68                                  My dear Mr. Binckley,              In reference to the brief conversation between us a few days since, allow me in                 candor to say, that I should decidedly prefer to retain my present post as Record                 Clerk, the duties of which I feel that I can fulfil properly   & that I                 would therefore, as far as my personal choice is concerned, wish to be not thought of in view of the pardon clerkship. Only in case of urgent wish on your or Mr. Browning's part,                 would I deem it my duty to waive the preference mentioned, & obey your commands. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/ucl.00002.html," Walt Whitman to Orville Hickman Browning ,","Apr 7, 1868",0.410716714266,"  Attorney General's Office, Washington, April 7, 1868.                  Hon. O. H. Browning,                                  Attorney General, ad interim Sir:              In obedience to your request, I have carefully examined the papers, presented by Hon.                 Mr. Cavanaugh, making grave charges against Judge                 Lyman E. Munson, Associate Justice, U.S. Courts of Montana Territory   &                 have prepared the following abridgement & abstract of said papers.                               Very respectfully,                 Walt Whitman, of A. G. office.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/yal.00294.html," John Camden Hotten to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 8, 1868",0.410852713178,"image 1image 2image 3image 4                                        74 & 75 Piccadilly W                                                       London                      8 Ap. 1868                                  Dear Sir:              I am in receipt of your kind letter. The portrait of yourself we have given in the English Edition of ""Poems"" will be superseded by one from the very fine photograph wch Mr. Moncure Conway has lent me to be engraved. Should our second attempt not be satisfactory, I will cheerfully avail my self of your offer. Mr. Swinburne was very pleased to hear that his mention of                                                     yourself and literary labours had given satisfaction. He is now busy upon ""Bothwell""   a new poem wch may be regarded as a sequel to his ""Chastelard"". I am a little puzzled as to a good agent for the sale of our English selection from                 your ""Poems"" in America. Any suggestions you may make will be thankfully                 received. Pray excuse the hasty scrawl   hasty to catch the post.                  Yrs very truly                 John Camden Hotten                              W. Whitman  �� You will have received some newspaper notices of the English Edition by this time I posted them a few days since. Enclosed is from John Bright's paper "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/pml.00024.html," Walt Whitman to Abby H. Price ,","Apr 10, 1868",0.411124711002,"  Attorney General's Office, Washington. April 10, 1868.                                  My dear friend,              I rec'd your first letter of about a month ago, (March 9)   I enquired of a                 friend in the revenue office, about the tax under the new law, & whether ruffles                 would be exempted, &c.   & on or about the 11th March, I wrote you, what I had                 learned   viz: that they were to be exempted   & also all the gossip                 & news, about the O'Connors, & about myself, literary matters with me, and                 how I was situated here, and about things in general   of                     course a mighty interesting letter it must have been   and a dreadful                 loss not to get! for I infer by your second letter April 7, just rec'd, that you did                     not get it   which I deeply regret, for I don't like                 to be supposed capable of not responding to those that are almost the same as my own folks   (I put both the old & new No's on the                 address   perhaps that made it miscarry,) but let that go    The changes in the Attorney Gen's office have made no difference in my                 situation   I have had the good luck to be treated with ""distinguished                 consideration"" by all the Attorney Gen's   Mr. Speed, Mr. Stanbery, & the present                 one Mr. Browning   I couldn't wish to have better bosses   & as to the                 pleasantness & permanency of my situation here, it is not likely to be affected,                 as far as at present appears, unless Wade, coming in power, should                 appoint Harlan, or some                 pious & modest Radical of similar stripe, to the Attorney Generalship   in                 which case, doubtless, I should have to tumble out. My dear friends, I often think about you all   Helen & Emily in particular,                 & wish I could look in upon you, Sunday afternoons   I warmly thank you for                 your hospitable offers   Give my best respects to Mr. Arnold & Mr.                 Price    I shall have a piece in the Galaxy for May   it will be called                 ""Personalism""   is a continuation of the piece on Democracy   shall have a                 poem soon, (perhaps in May No.) in the Broadway magazine    I am well as usual   the Impeachment is growing shaky   it it a doubtful business   I am writing this at my                 table in office   as I look out it is dark & cloudy with a chill rain, but                 the grass is green & I see the river flowing beyond. With love,  Walt Whitman              I saw William & Ellen O'Connor last night   told them I should write you                     to-day   Both charged me to send you their love   little Jenny is well                     & active. I send you a newspaper same mail with this. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00280.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Apr 16, 1868",0.411940704474,"  Attorney General's Office, Washington, Thursday noon April 16, 1868.                                  Dearest mother,              Well, it is a dark cloudy day, & raining hard   the darkies were to have a                 great celebration here to-day, in honor of emancipation   they turn out here in                 real good style, on such occasions   but it is too wet for them to-day   Mr. Stanbery is quite ill, as you see by the papers   The Impeachment trial                 still goes on   I went up, that day, but it was very crowded,                 & the air was so bad, I left, & went off & had a real good tramp, way up                 Georgetown, along the banks of the river   it is beautiful along there, of a                 fine day   So you see I am still able to get around. There is nothing new in the office   the same old story   I have rec'd a                 number of papers from England with notices of my book, there   mostly friendly                 & favorable   more so than any here   Mother, I am very sorry you have those pains in your                 face & head   I shouldn't wonder if it was neuralgia   that is a                 violent inflammation of the nerves of the face & head   Mrs. Mix used to have it very bad   O, I                 forgot I believe to tell you Mrs. Mix is living yet   she had a very bad spell,                 but got over it   Mother, I have just got your letter of 14th   & was                 glad to get it   I havn't seen William Velsor for some time   will tell him when I see him    Mother, I send a couple of papers same time with this   they are not much, but                 will do just for a change   poor old Uncle John   he is failing then                 at last   I suppose George is well, & having good times   I see him                 every day as I have his picture tacked up on the door of my desk in front   Good bye, dearest mother, & take good care of yourself, & dont work too                 hard.  Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01575.html," Walt Whitman to John Camden Hotten ,","Apr 24, 1868",0.41302869577,"  April 24 '68                                  To Mr. Hotten,              I am glad to hear you are having Mr. Conways potograph engraved in place of the bad                 print now in the book. If a faithful presentation of                 that photograph can be given it will satisfy me well   of course it should be                 reproduced with all its shaggy, dappled, rough-skinned character & not attempted                 to be smoothed, or prettyfied   (if in time I send the following                 hints)   let the costume be kept very simple & broad, & rather kept down                 too, little as there is of it   preserve the effect of the sweeping lines                 making all that fine free angle below the chin   I would suggest not to bring in                 so fully the shoulders & bust as the photograph does   make only the                     neck, the collar with the immediately                 neighboring part of the shirt delineated. You will see that the spot at the left                 side of the hair, near the temple, is a white blur, & does not belong in the                 picture. The eyes part, and all around the eyes, try to re-produce fully &                 faithfully, exactly as in the photograph. I hope you have a good artist at the work. It is perhaps worth your taking special                 pains about, both to achieve a successfull picture & likeness, something                 characteristic, & as certain to be a marked help to your edition of the book.                 Send me an early proof of the engraving    Thank you for the papers with notices in them   & for your Academia criticism. Please continue to send any special notices. I receive them                 safely & promptly. The London Review notice is reprinted here in Littell's                 Living Age. I should like to know who wrote the piece in the                 Morning Star   it flushed                 my friends & myself too, like a sun-dash, brief, hot, & dazzling. I have several things more to say, & will write again soon   Also to Mr. Rossetti to whom,                 meantime, please offer my friendliest, truest regards.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01572.html," Walt Whitman to A. Bronson Alcott ,","Apr 26, 1868",0.413300693594,"  To Mr Alcott,                                      April 26 '68                                Your kind & welcome letter came to hand. Pardon me for not responding sooner. I esteem your friendly                 appreciation of ""Democracy."" I have just sent you ""Personalism""   which is to be                 followed, in perhaps a couple of months or so, by another article, addressing itself                 mainly to the question of what kind of Literature we must seek, for our coming                 America, &c. In the three articles (to be gathered probably in book) I put                 forth, to germinate if they may, what I would fain hope might prove little seeds                 & roots.  I am still living here in Washington   employed in a post in the Attorney                 General's office, very pleasantly, with sufficient leisure, & almost entirely                 without those peculiar belongings, that make the Treasury & Interior Dep't                 &c. clerkships disagreeable. I am, as ever, working on Leaves of                 Grass   hoping to bring it yet into fitter & fuller proportions. I am well                 as usual. My dear mother is living & well; we speak of you. I wish you to give                 my best respects & love to Mr. Emerson    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01286.html," Walt Whitman to William C. Church and Francis P. Church ,","Apr 30, 1868",0.413844689242,"  Washington                     April 30, 1868.                  Messrs. W. C. & F. P. Church.                                                   My friends:              I have now just ready an article intended as the third & concluding one to the                 two already published by you, on ""Democracy"" and ""Personalism.""  This is upon the general subject of a needed American Literature,                     in the highest sense, & of our imaginative, mental, &c. growths,                 home-born, appropriate to & towering high enough for, The States, &                 faithfully in the interests of their Democratic institutions. I have, of course,                 treated the subject in my own way   certain parts strong & earnest   but                 there is nothing in it to make the piece at all improper for the                 magazine   probably indeed may be found more appropriate &                 serviceable   more to rouse editorial & critical remark, &c   than                 the already published articles.  I propose to you to print it in the Galaxy for July. It will make from eleven to                 twelve pages in your new form & type. The name is                                                                            Orbic Literature.                                                                The price, if satisfactory, will be the same as for each of the previous                 articles, viz: $100. I reserve the right of printing it in future book. I can send it on                 immediately. I think it will be best not to delay too long, as the interest in the thing is now                 up, something like a serial story. This is the conclusion, & I should like to                 have it in July number.   Walt Whitman.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/upa.00159.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman , 28","May 1, 1868",0.413980688154,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington Tuesday afternoon April 28, 1868                                  Dearest mother,              I have received your letter of Saturday 25th this morning,                  & glad to hear from you indeed   I suppose by this time you have rec'd the letter                  I sent yesterday 27th   I sent you the Galaxy, but I see by your letter                  that George had already bought one. I have seen the piece in Thursday's Times   John Swinton sent me one   so you can enclose it to Jeff   I have just received                  a letter from England, enclosing other notices, &c.   Mr. Conway is very friendly   but my friend Col. Hinton, (in his letter some weeks ago in the Rochester Express,)                  has given him, Conway, some pretty sharp cuts about his ridiculous anecdotes of me                  & you too   Still Conway seems to mean all the good he can. But such descriptions                  of me as, ""he was never known to smile or laugh,"" is altogether too jolly   dont you think so?              Thursday evening 8 o'clock Well, mother, I will again write a few lines   I have been out most                  all the afternoon   went up first to the Impeachment trial, & heard Mr. Evarts                  speak a while, & then left, for it seemed too pleasant outdoors to stay in there   I took a long walk, & ride in the cars away out in the suburbs,                  & so back to dinner, & now this evening another walk   & have fetched in                  here at the office, to sit awhile, read the paper &c.   I received to-day                  another letter from old Mr. Alcott   I sent him the Galaxy with ""Personalism""   & he compliments me highly, & speaks of Mr. Emerson too & his friendliness to me   We have had a warm but very pleasant day   I am feeling very well   I only hope, dear mother, you are feeling well & in good spirits.              Friday evening, May 1. Mother, your letter of Wednesday, 29th, came this forenoon   it was too bad                  you didn't get mine Tuesday, as I put it in the P. O. myself Monday   So you are not going to move at present   I too remain in the same place,                  but have been going to move all winter & the spring too   I have been in the office                  all day to-day   all the rest of the clerks wanted to go up to the                  Impeachment trial, but I didn't care to go.              I have received another paper from England to-day, with a tremendous big favorable notice                  of my book, between three & four columns, one of the friendliest notices yet written.                  The English publisher of my book, Mr Hotten, sends them to me    Saturday, noon   I am going off for the afternoon   Mr. Stanbery is to speak on the trial, & I may go in & hear him a few minutes,                  but I guess I shall spend my half-holiday mostly in jaunting around in the open air.                  Every thing begins to look like summer here   the trees are all green   we are having it pretty warm to-day, but a little hazy   it is now 12 o'clock   the noon-bell has just rung, & I am off for the rest of the day   Take good care of yourself, dear mother    Sunday afternoon   Mother, you see I am determined to make you out a letter   I have been sitting here in the office all alone, fixing up my new piece                  for the Galaxy   for I have still another piece, besides those that have already appeared   Two have appeared, & now this is the third one, addressed to the literary classes   I want the Galaxy folks to print it in the July number, but they havn't sent me word yet                  whether they will or no. It is a pleasant day   we have had quite a rain storm                  yesterday afternoon & last night   I am going out at 6 o'clock to                  O'Connors to tea   Mother, I hope you are having a pleasant Sunday.              Monday forenoon, May 4.              Well, I had a quiet, agreeable sort of Sunday   wrote & read most of the forenoon,                  & rambled out in the afternoon   & went up to O'Connor's in the evening   he had two or three others there, visitors   O'Connors & Burroughs's are very hospitable to me,                  the same as they always have been   they are almost the only places I go   I send you a couple of papers same mail with this   I am going to send the MS                  of my piece to the Galaxy to-day, as I have just rec'd a note from them by mail this morning    I suppose George is well, & busy   I should like to see you all.                  Love to you, dearest mother   I will write again next Monday.               Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01287.html," Francis P. Church to Walt Whitman ,","May 2, 1868",0.414116687067,"image 1image 2image 3image 4                   An Illustrated Magazine of Entertaining Reading.                 Published Monthly                                      OFFICE OF THE GALAXY                     No. 39 Park Row,                                                       New York,                      May 2 1868                                      My dear Sir:              To be in time for the July Galaxy your article ought to be here by the middle or                 close of next week. For I have already begun to send [over?]  [matter?] for [that number.?]                   Very truly yours                 F. P. Church              Mr Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01579.html," Walt Whitman to Charles Hine ,","May 9, 1868",0.415068679451,"  Sent May 9   '68                                  My dear Charles Hine,              I received with gladness the authentic sign & proof that you are on hand &                 doing, viz. ""Watsons Art Journal"" with notice &c.   I am anxious                 to see the picture. I am sure it must be a thing of beauty, glowing, human, &                 true. Believe me, my friend, I have not forgotten you, nor your old kindness &                 friendliness. Also Mrs. Hine & the daughter   to whom I send best                 remembrances.  As soon as I come to New York again, I will visit you at the studio. In the meantime,                 I send you by same mail as this a copy of my last edition, also a little book,                 written by Mr. Burroughs,                 (a second Thoreau,) and a newspaper, with letter   the book & letter all about my precious                 self   & I dare say may interest you. If the books are not brought by the                 carrier, you must send to p. o. for them. I have seen Faris here, but now he has                 gone back to N. Y. I am working in the Attorney General's office   have a                 pleasant berth, moderate pay, but sufficient    I am well, weight nearly 200, & eat my rations every time. You must write, &                 let me know whether the books come safe.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01288.html," Francis P. Church to Walt Whitman ,","May 15, 1868",0.415884672923,"image 1image 2image 3image 4                   An Illustrated Magazine of Entertaining Reading.                 Published Monthly                                      OFFICE OF THE GALAXY                     No. 39 Park Row,                                                       New York,                      May 15 1868                                      My dear Sir:              After thinking over your article for several days, & consulting with [Mr.?] Sheldon                 (who of course has no editorial control over The Galaxy, but whose opinion in courtesy I am bound to regard) I am obliged to come to the conclusion that for the present at least,                  it is best that it should not be printed in The Galaxy. The July number for which it was [illegible]ded ought to be a light number for Summer reading:             this is an article that requires thought; cannot be read on cars &c, & ought to appear in soberer weather. But lest you should wish to use it elsewhere immediately I return the MS. in a separate package. I regret that there has been any delay in reaching this conclusion, but the                                                   question could not be decided hastily, in justice to you.                  I am                 Very truly yours                 F. P. Church              Mr Walt Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01919.html," Sheldon & Company to Walt Whitman ,","May 16, 1868",0.416020671835,"image 1image 2image 3image 4                                        SHELDON & COMPANY                     PUBLISHERS AND BOOKSELLERS,                     Nos. 49 & 500 BROADWAY.                     Nearly opposite St. Nicholas Hotel.                     SMITH SHELDON.                     HEZEKIAH SHAILER.                     ISAAC E. SHELDON.                                                       New York,                     May 16th 1868                                  Walt Whitman Esq                 Dear Sir              Enclosed we send you our check for $75.00 for your article on ""Personalism"" in May                 Galaxy. We understand from Mr. Church that this article was to be paid for in the same                 proportion as your oth    articles have been                  We are Very Truly Yours                 Sheldon & Co              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/prc.00012.html," Walt Whitman to Sheldon & Company ,","May 18, 1868",0.416292669659,"  Washington, May 18, 1868.                  Messrs. Sheldon & Co.                                  Dear Sirs:              Your note of 16th May, with draft for Seventy-Five Dollars, in pay for article Personalism, have safely come to hand. Please accept thanks, &c. &c.  Walt Whitman.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/duk.00650.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jun 1, 1868",0.418196654427,"  Attorney General's Office, Washington. Saturday afternoon June 6, 1868                                  Dearest Mother,              I rec'd your letter day before yesterday   & am sorry you are troubled with                 rheumatism   it must be quite bad   Do you have any one to do the rougher                 house-work? I hope you have. Mother, every thing is pretty much the same with                 me   I remain very well, go around a good deal in the open air   we have it                 pretty hot in the middle of the day, & dusty   but the nights are                 beautiful    I know the Mr. Simonson you saw at the post office   he has been a sort of Deputy                 post master a good many years   Notwithstanding what he says, the Brooklyn p. o.                 has a very bad name, & a great many money letters sent there never get to their                 destination   but I should think by what you have said, that the carrier who                 brings your letters must be a good safe man    We had the strangest procession here last Tuesday night, about 3000 darkeys, old                 & young, men & women   I saw them all   they turned out in honor of                     their victory in electing the Mayor, Mr. Bowen   the                 men were all armed with clubs or pistols   besides the procession in the street,                 there was a string went along the sidewalk in single file with bludgeons &                 sticks, yelling & gesticulating like madmen   it was quite comical, yet very                 disgusting & alarming in some respects   They were very insolent, &                 altogether it was a strange sight   they looked like so many wild brutes let                 loose   thousands of slaves from the Southern plantations have crowded up                 here   many are supported by the Gov't. Yesterday I went up to the Presidents to see the reception of the Chinese                 Embassy   there were eight or nine Chinese, headed by our Mr. Burlingame, who is                 head of them all, (O'Connor knows him quite well)   you will see the speech made                 to them by the President, in the papers   I think it is first rate     Sunday noon, June 7.                                       I am sitting awhile in the office   we are having a spell of hot oppressive                 weather   It is generally thought we clerks will get our extra                 compensation   but I wait to see whether Congress will pass it   if they do                 I will make you a present, mother dear   So you like the ticket, Grant &                     Colfax, do you, mother? Well, I do, too   Chase is                 cutting up, trying to get somebody to nominate him, & doing his best to injure                 the Republican ticket   He is just the meanest & biggest kind of a                 shyster   He tried the same game at Lincoln's second nomination   Mother, I                 send the Chicago News, No. 7   have you rec'd the six others all safe? I have                     sent them all    Monday forenoon, June 8. Nothing special to write about this                 morning, mother. We had a thunder-shower last night & very pleasant this                 morning   I was up to O'Connors as usual last evening to tea   they are all                 well. Well, I believe that is all   only to send you my love, mother                 dear   same to George   write all the domestic news, & about George's                 work, & the house.  Walt              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/duk.00651.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jul 1, 1868",0.422276621787,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington,                     Friday afternoon, July 10, 1868.                                  Dearest mother,              I rec'd your letter this morning. It is too bad you don't get my letters                  Tuesday, as I send them in ample time Monday   they are in the p. o. here by noon,                  & the mail don't close till about 6 p. m.   then the letters get in                  New York by ½ past 5 Tuesday morning    We have had very hot weather   I thought about you   it is quite oppressive                  on me this summer   still I get along quite well   get along pretty well nights   but every time the middle of the summer comes round, I think I will never stay                  through another summer in Washington, if I can help it    Saturday noon   11th   We are having a very hot day   How do you all like the nomination of Seymour and Blair?                 It is a regular old Copperhead Democratic ticket, of the rankest kind   probably pleases the old democratic bummers around New York and Brooklyn   but every where else they take it like a bad dose of medicine   the democrats are dissatisfied here, the worst kind    O'Connors have had quite a serious falling out with Mrs. Burroughs   John is away yet   may call upon you on his way home. Mrs. B. is a curious woman   but has been very kind to me   Of course you mustn't let on that you know any thing   only you might mention to him that                  I often write about the wife's & his kindness to me   but probably it is doubtful if he calls    Mother, I am sitting here by my window in the office   I dont have the smell of any streets or gutters   but it is burning hot,                  & hardly any air stirring   fortunately we have moderate nights   & so I manage to get along    Monday morning 13th It still keeps hot, & no rain   I was up at O'Connor's a while last evening   Ellen O'Connor is quite sick   has a bad attack of dysentery   the rest are all well    Nothing decided yet about who shall be attorney General   every thing goes on as usual in the office    Well, mother, I must close   it is now a little after 10   there is a pleasant breeze blowing in from the river, quite refreshing   Good by for the present, & love to you & all, mother dear.               Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00281.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jul 17, 1868",0.424452604379,"  Attorney General's Office, Washington. Friday noon, July 17, 1868.                  Dearest mother,              I have nothing particular to write about, but I thought I would just write a line. I                 hope you have stood the hot weather, without giving out   & George too I                 hope he exercises more care about himself, because I think our family is more liable                 than many to the effects of the great heat & exposure to the sun   I have                 got along pretty well, but it has been awful hot   & continues so, though                 as I write here by my window, there has quite a cool breeze sprung up since I                 commenced writing   Fortunately, I sleep very well nights   there has been                 only one night I haven't slept comfortably    We have a new Attorney General, Mr. Evarts, as I suppose you have seen by the papers   He hasn't                 made his appearance here yet   but is expected soon   I only hope he will                 be as agreeable for a boss as the others have been   but somehow I don't                 believe he will   I am really sorry to have Binckley go, for he was a good                 friend of mine   & Mr. Browning too   Mother, I do hope you will get                 through this awful spell, all right   it can't last much longer   &                 George too   Mother, don't look for the next letter till Wednesday next   I have had a letter from Jeff   all are well & hearty, except Mat has some cough                 yet   take care of yourself, dear mother.  Walt.              Your letter has come to-day, mother   John Burroughs has returned   he                     has a good piece in Putnam's for August                     "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/uva.00352.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Aug 1, 1868",0.426492588059,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington Thursday noon, Aug. 13, 1868.                                  Dearest mother,              Your letter has come this morning   I always read it through,                  & then in the afternoon read it through a second time   every little item is interesting   poor Mat, she has indeed had a narrow escape   to think how it might have happened by another hair's breadth   We are having beautiful weather here   quite cool,                  except in the middle of the day   I am feeling well as usual   nothing special or new in the office   all seems to go on smoothly   Mr. Evarts is here   Ashton has gone to New York for a few days   I have just sent off quite a batch of letters to Hannah    Saturday 15th   I took a sail down to Alexandria yesterday   it is six or eight miles   you go down in a steamer,                  something like the Brooklyn ferry boats   & to-day I have just                  been out for nearly two hours   so you see I am not confined                  very closely   We have not much to do in the office   It is beautiful weather again to-day, cool enough, and I feel very well   It is probable that I shall not take my leave of absence                  for a few weeks yet   I will send you good word    There are a great many clerks dismissed, from the Treasury, War                  & other Departments   several hundreds   & more to be dismissed   it makes a good deal of distress   many have families   as far as appears at present, I expect to stay on as usual    It is now about one o'clock   a cool breeze is blowing in from the river   Mother dear, I hope you are feeling well to-day, & every thing is going smoothly   I hope George is well, & having good times   I suppose the house must                  be most finished   You must tell me all about it, when you write    Sunday forenoon   16th   I am sitting here by myself in the office   it is warm, but pleasant   It is pretty dull here in Washington now that Congress is away    Afternoon   ½ past 3   We have had a hot day so far   had a good dinner   good roast beef & apple pie   had company to dinner   I have come around to the office to sit in quiet awhile,                  by my big open window   nice old window   I have spent so many quiet comfortable hours by it,                  I shall be sorry enough when I leave it   I never get tired looking out,                  there is river & hills & gardens & trees   can see ten or twelve miles   & boats sailing   I am going up to O'Connors towards 7 o'clock as usual   I am working at my leisure on my little book   I dont know whether                  I have spoken of it before   in prose   those pieces in the Galaxy form                  portions of it   it is on political & literary subjects   It is a real pleasure to me   the new edition of Leaves of Grass is all ready fixed   so I don't bother with it any more    Monday forenoon   Aug 17   Well, Mother, I will close up my letter,                  & send it off to-day   I went out to O'Connors as usual last evening                  & staid till after 11 o'clock   They have got another house,                  & move in about a month   We are all quite busy to-day in the office   Mr. Evarts & Ashton are both here now, & we have to fly around   Well I enjoy it just as well when I am busy during office hours,                  or rather I like it better   the pleasant weather continues   we need rain   dear mother, how are you getting along, & how is the rheumatism?                               Love to you & all.                 Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/duk.00653.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Aug 1, 1868",0.426492588059,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington.                     Sunday forenoon, August 30, 1868.                                  Dearest mother                 Well, here I am, sitting alone in the office, Sunday, writing again to you,                  dear mother. I rec'd your letter last week, all right. It is pleasant weather here,                  but warm   we had a heavy rain night before last, which laid the dust.                  There is nothing new with me, or in the office. Mr. Evarts still remains away,                  up on his farm at Windsor, Vermont, with his family. Ashton runs the office   Mrs. A. returned to Washington last evening, after two months' absence   she left her little boy in New York   she is not well.              The O'Connors expect to move the coming week   They have got a nice little new house,                  two story, five rooms   it is about four or five blocks from where I live   they pay $30 a month   They are all well as usual   the Burroughs's the same    You would be amused to see some of the visitors I have now & then   One was a middle-aged, brown-complexioned lady, a great spiritualist                  & lecturess   she broke off in the midst of the conversation   then after a while told me that she had been spoken to by the spirit of Abraham Lincoln,                  and begged me to excuse her, as she wanted to talk with that sperit   I politely told her I would excuse her under the circumstances   & off she went.              Then another day a tall well-drest man, a perfect stranger, came,                  & said he had seen a good deal about me in the papers   said he had been an officer in the army   & wanted me to get him a place                  under government, as he was hard up   I got rid of him as gently as I could   but yesterday he came again & wanted me to let him have $10!   So you see my official life, with all its monotony, is not without                  a little fun, now & then, for a change.              Then I must tell you that a lady, a Mrs. McKnight, looks & acts quite a good deal like our Mary,                  has called upon me, a few days since   & I will tell you what for.                  She is quite a portrait painter, & very ambitious of being a first-rate artist.                  At present she seems to be tolerably good. Two of her pictures I have seen,                  are real good   Well she wants to make a portrait of my beautiful countenance                  for herself to keep, & came to ask me to sit for her   Well I consented   but don't think I shall begin until I return from my leave   So you see I have visitors & applications of all sorts    Monday forenoon, Aug. 31.              Well, mother, it is the last day of summer   we have had it very hot                  & melting here for two or three days   but there is a cool fresh breeze                  blowing in here, as I finish my letter   it is quite pleasant, as we have                  had some fine showers lately   I hope this will find you feeling well                  & in good spirits, dearest mother. Love to Georgy & all     Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/duk.00652.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Aug 24, 1868",0.429620563035,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington Monday forenoon August 24, 1868                                  Dearest mother,              I send you some envelopes   they are already stamped   I send you one with Mat's address, & one to Han, so you will                  have them ready when you want to write. I rec'd your letter of last Wednesday   I hope it will work so that you can have apartments in George's new house,                  if possible   it must be any thing but agreeable there in Atlantic street,                  on some accounts, but there is always something   I have not been satisfied                  with my boarding place   so several weeks ago, I tried another place                  & room for a couple of days & nights on trial, without giving up my old room   Well, I was glad enough to go back to my old place & stay there   I was glad enough I hadn't given it up   there are some things I don't like,                  but there are others very good indeed   it is situated in the healthiest,                  sweetest part of Washington   two of our boarders, clerks, have left   they have lost their places, one in the War, and the other in the State Department    It is overcast here to-day, but warm   I enjoy it   go around in the                  open air a great deal, & take things moderate   want to see you, dear mother,                  very much indeed, but don't think I shall leave till latter part of September   I do hope you are feeling quite well, & not working too hard    You say you think I like Washington so much   Well I am satisfied here, but not particularly attached to the place   only I think it is better for me as things are, & better all round   if it could only be so that I could come home for a little while, & frequently,                  I should want nothing more   but one mustn't expect to have every thing to suit perfectly    I am feeling well as usual   Now that the awful long hot spell is over,                  I can hardly believe I have stood it so well   & you, too, mother dear,                  seem to have got along a great deal better than I would have expected   Things are dull enough in Washington, but it suits me just as well   Mr. Evarts has gone home   he has a farm at Windsor, Vermont   his family lives there   he has a large family of children   Ashton is running the office   Love to Georgy & all   Good bye, dear mother.               Walt.              The 50cts is for Ed. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/hsp.00008.html," Walt Whitman to William Livingston Alden ,","Aug 27, 1868",0.430028559772,"  Washington,                     August 27, 1868.                                  My dear Mr. Alden:              Would the enclosed be considered opportune   & of use to you for The Citizen?                  As it has been printed before, it would not be proper to put                  ""For The Citizen"" over it   but just print it plainly. Of course it is gratuitous   & I accompany it with best respects to yourself. I have not forgotten                  your kind invitations to furnish an original piece for the paper   & hope one day to have something which will be suitable.                  I am writing very little lately. Should you print the piece,                  I wish you to do me the favor to send ten copies by mail to my address here.               Walt Whitman                 Attorney General's Office              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/pml.00025.html," Walt Whitman to Abby H. Price ,","Sep 7, 1868",0.431524547804,"  Washington,                     September 7, 1868.                                  Dear Abby:              I have leave of absence commencing first of next week, and intend coming on to New York,                  for a while, to spend the first part of it. Are you so fixed that                  you can give me a room? You must answer candidly no, if not   please write at once   I am well as usual   nothing very new or important with me.                  The advent of the new Attorney General, Mr. Evarts, does not seem likely to affect my position here.                  But there have been many dismissals of clerks in the Departments. The O'Connors are well   the little girl has picked up amazingly   goes about, indeed, as strong & nimble as a grasshopper    In a late letter, Mother said she had not seen any thing of Helen or                  Emily for some time   I suppose you have been off in the country.              Love to all   & good bye for the present.  Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/tex.00188.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Sep 7, 1868",0.431524547804,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington.                     Monday forenoon Sept. 7, 1868.                                  Dearest Mother                 Your letter came Saturday, with the acc't of the accident                  & sudden death of little Andrew   poor little child   I believe I have never seen him   it was sad enough   but the poor young one                  is out of this world of sin & trouble   & I don't know as we                  have any cause to mourn for him    Mother, my leave of absence will commence early next week,                  but I will send you word two or three days before-hand, when I shall come on.                  I have a good long leave, & want to rest myself as much as possible,                  & have a change of scene, & a quiet time, & no literary or other work to bother me   only just have a good quiet moderate time, for somehow I feel as if                  I wanted to throw off everything like work or thought, for a while   & be with my old mammy at least a good part of the time    Mr. Evarts is still away   O'Connor was to move to-day, but it is showery,                  & he has postponed it till Wednesday   I was up there last evening,                  & had tea & spent the evening.              I wrote to Han Saturday last, & enclosed your letter in mine   I am still at Mrs. Benedict's 472 M st.   find it about as good as                  I could probably get anywhere   most of the boarders have left   I and another young man are the only ones left   they were in the Departments,                  & were discharged   Many have been discharged within the last two months,                  & many more the end of this month are expected to be.                  It makes great misery among some, especially with families   O'Connor & Burroughs still retain their places    Well, Mother, the summer is pretty well over   they say the folks                  are coming home from the country, &c   I am glad I didn't take my leave                  1st of August, as I expected to, at one time   but was disappointed   When you get this I wish you to write one more letter   but no more till you see me   I think it is going to be a fine day   I am feeling well    Well, I have a long job of copying to do for Ashton, so I will wind up my letter,                  & set about it   I shall write once more before I come   Good bye for this time, dear Mother.               Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/pml.00026.html," Walt Whitman to Abby H. Price ,","Sep 14, 1868",0.432476540188,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington.                     Monday, Sept. 14, 1868                                   Dear Abby,              I shall come on in the train that leaves here in the middle of the day,                  to-morrow Tuesday, 15th, & gets in New York at 10 at night   so I shall be up there by or before 11 to-morrow night   (to-night for you reading this.)              I am really pleased that you can accommodate me, & make great reckoning of being with you,                  & of my room, &c   but wish [to] have it distinctly understood, in all friendship,                  that I pay for my room,                  &c, just the same as any body else   positively                  I will not come on any other terms   & you must just let it be as I say this time   I have lots of money   in fact untold wealth   & I shall not feel right                 if you undertake to alter this part of my programme   I am feeling well                  & hearty   I wish you to read my piece in the ""Broadway London Magazine,""                  just out   it was written for you among the rest   In a few hours I shall be with you.               Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/uva.00360.html," Peter Doyle to Walt Whiman ,","Sep 18, 1868",0.433020535836,"image 1image 2image 3image 4  Washington                     Sep 18                                  Dear Walt,              I could not resist the inclination to write to you this morning it seems more than a week since i saw you there is hardly anything of interest transpired since you went away except occasionaly some one inquires for the Major, or the General or some familiar name which no doubt which you have heard so often Dear Walt I have examined that book (Pollards History) and i am Very much displeased with it i find it is quite the opposite from what i was led to believe i thought it mentioned the movements of the different companys & Regiments i am sorry that i made such a mistake because the Book is of no interest to me inclosed you will find somemthing from this mornings Cronicle it seems the Washington Papers has you right for once i am very impatient to hear from you to know that you are doing well Dave & all the rest of the Rail Road boys is well & sends their best respects mother had a very sick headache when i left home this morning i have to cut this short as i write a part of it while the car is in motion                  farewell                 Peter Doyle              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00283.html," Walt Whitman to Byron Sutherland ,","Sep 20, 1868",0.43329253366,"                                           331 East 55th street,                         bet. 1st and 2nd Av's                            New York                                                                                 September 20, 1868.                                  Byron Sutherland, Dear young man,              I have received your letter of September 12, & was well pleased to hear from you.                  I have many times thought of you   for I must tell you, Byron,                  I retain just the same friendship I formed for you the short time we were together, (but intimate,) in 1865.              I think, at that time, I was a clerk in the Interior Department.                  I was dismissed from there   but was appointed by the then Attorney General,                  Mr. Speed, to a moderate place in his Dep't. I have been in that Dep't. ever since   have a pleasant situation   have been promoted   & have now served under four successive Attorney Generals.              It is rather dull in Washington   but I make out quite comfortably   walk & ride around a good deal. Byron, I am still living in the same house,                  472 M street, near 12th, where you staid with me a little while in 1865   and where you would be truly welcome to your old friend if you would come & stop with him again.              There is nothing very new or special with me. I have excellent health,                  eat my rations every time, and am I suppose full as fat and brown and bearded & sassy as ever.              I will send you, by same mail with this, a newspaper, with a piece written by                  a young man, Col. Hinton, a friend of mine, some time since, about me,                  that may interest you   but he plasters it on pretty thick.              As you see by the heading of this letter I am now in New York.                  Your letter was sent on to me here. I am on furlough, which expires last of October,                  when I shall return to Washington. While here I spend much of my time with                  my dear Mother, in Brooklyn   she is hearty & cheerful, though nearly 73.              My address, for some four weeks to come, will be as at the heading                  of this letter. After that, at Washington, D. C.              Well, I believe that is all, this time. Byron, I send you my love & friendship,                  dear soldier boy   and now that we have found each other again, let us try,                  as far as may be, to keep together.               Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/uva.00361.html," Peter Doyle to Walt Whitman ,","Sep 23, 1868",0.433700530396,"image 1image 2  Washington                 7½ o clock Evening 23rd Sept '68                                                  Dear Walt              As i send this I am getting ready to go to the Theatre to see the Black Crook nothing new today but the Weather Very Wet & Stormy & i am afraid to Venture to work until the Storm is past just received your letter of the 20th about ten minutes ago i cant Explain the Pleasure i experience from your letters                  Farewell my good & true Friend,                 Pete the Great              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01257.html," William F. Channing to Walt Whitman ,","Sep 24, 1868",0.433836529308,"image 1image 2image 3image 4  Providence R. I.                     Sept 24    1868.                                     Walt Whitman Esq.                 Dear Sir,              Mrs. O'Connor writes Mrs. Channing that you are in New York    I write you, on a forlorn hope, to offer you our best welcome if any thing should induce you to turn Eastward. We have to offer entertainment, not brillieant, but quiet & unconstrained. You would find some                                                                     few persons here whom I think you would like to meet. To balance this on the other side is all New York! All for which I can really answer is the sincere desire to see you here in a home-like way    I think we have a home that is worth something, & that we gladly open to you. Will you not visit us?                            Yrs truly                 Wm. F. Channing              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01955.html," John Swinton to Walt Whitman ,","Sep 25, 1868",0.43397252822,"image 1image 2image 3                  Friday 6. P.M.                 My dear and great Walt.              As you did not come up yesterday afternoon I did not expect you to day. I hope to be present when you come up for this package. I would be, did I know when you would come. I want to see you that I may get another copy of the ""Leaves"" and subscribe an X for the expense of their publication I am profoundly impressed with the great humanity, or genius, that expresses itself through you. I read this afternoon in the book. I read its first division which I never before read. I could convey no idea to you of how it affects my soul. It is more to me than all other books and poetry. The poem in the Broadway has supreme passages and thoughts; but it                                                     does not seem to me perfectly artistic. Art, as applied to poetry, simply means the best, highest, most national, most effective form of expression. I salute you as the poet of my heart my intellect, my ideality, my life.                  Yours truly                 J Swinton              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01581.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Sep 25, 1868",0.43397252822,"  N. Y.                     Sept 25 '68 3d letter.                                  Dear Boy,              I rec'd your second letter yesterday   it is a real comfort to me to get such                 letters from you, dear friend. Every word does me good. The Star came all right, & was quite interesting. I suppose you got my                 second letter last Wednesday. There is nothing new or special to write about                 to-day   still I thought I would send you a few lines, for Sunday. I put down                 off hand, & write all about myself & my doings, &c. because I suppose                 that will be really what my dear comrade wants most to hear, while we are separated. I am doing a little literary work, according as I feel in the mood   composing on                 my books. I am having a small edition of the Leaves of Grass for 1867, fixed up                 & printed. This & some other things give me a little occupation. Upon the                 whole though I don't do much, but go around a great deal   eat my rations every                 time, sleep at night like a top, & am having good times so far, in a quiet way,                 enjoying New York, the society of my mother, & lots of friends. Among other                 things I spend a portion of the day, with the pilots of the ferry boats, sailing on                 the river. The river & bay of New York & Brooklyn are always a great                 attraction to me. It is a lively scene. At either tide, flood or ebb, the water is                 always rushing along as if in haste, & the river is often crowded with steamers,                 ships & small craft, moving in different directions, some coming in from sea,                 others going out. Among the pilots are some of my particular friends   when I                 see them up in the pilot house on my way to Brooklyn, I go up & sail to &                 fro several trips. I enjoy an hour or two's sail of this kind very much indeed. My mother                 & folks are well, & are engaged just these times in the delightful business                 of moving. I should assist, but have hired a substitute in the shape of a stout                 young laboring man. I send you, by mail, a copy of the Broadway, with the piece                     in the same as I had in the car one day. It will not interest you                 much, only as something coming from me. I think of you very often, dearest comrade, & with more calmness than when I was                 there   I find it first rate to think of you, Pete, & to know that you are                 there, all right, & that I shall return, & we will be together again. I                 don't know what I should do if I hadn't you to think of & look forward to.              Tell Tom Hasset, on No. 7, that I wish to be remembered to him                 particular. Pete, I hope this will find you entirely well of your cold. I am glad to                 hear that your mother is all right of her cold. This is the time of year when they                 are apt to be pretty troublesome. I should like to have seen that match played                 between the Nat. & Olympics.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/pml.00038.html," Peter Doyle to Walt Whitman ,","Sep 27, 1868",0.434244526044,"  Dear Walt,              I visited the Theatre since i wrote last to see the Black Crook. i had no idea that it was so good  Some of the scenes was magnificient. Harry (No II) sends you his love says he wished you would go to the city Hall at the sheriffs office and see Michael Halloran tell him all about him (Harry) & ask him how hose 48 is. & if there is any chances of getting into the Fire Department  also to give my respects to all inquiring friends & ask him if i can get one of the old Exempt Fire Badges. Dear Walt you have no idea how much interest the boys takes in your letters That second letter of yours has gone all around to them as you mentioned  you could not think how happy it makes them to think that you remember them. Pittsburg sends his love & would like you to write to him  his address is Lewis Wraymond 7th St. R.R. office i could not see the young man Sy[d?]nor  he is sick & not at work. Jimmy the Californian on 7th St.  RR Jim Sorrill sends his love & best respects & says he is alive & kicking but the most thing that he dont understand is that young Lady that said you make such a good bed fellow. also Charley Sorrill sends his love & is glad to hear you are doing so well Towers is Very much pleased at your letter & sends his love Henry Hurt sends his love & is very thankful for the Broadway that you sent him  I saw another game of Base Ball last friday between the Cincinatti & the Olympix  the game was all one sided  at the end of the game the score stood Olympic, 22 & the Cincinatti 9. I received your 3rd letter yesterday the 26 & also a copy of the Broadway and am Very thankful for them  in Friday Star you will find some Remarks of Mr. Hinton in some of the Equal rights associations for Females There is nothing new here at present Congress all gone home & everything Very dull  raining continually for nearly 2 weeks and everything looking Very miserable  I have been off for a few days but i resumed operations again yesterday the 26th  all seems to be quiet along the Potomac once more except a little skirmishing between the Sailor the Superintendent & the Rail Road boys occasionaly let me know if you get the Star every evening Walt you cant think how much pleasure i derive from our letters. it seems to me Very often that you are With me and that i am Speaking to you. good bye Dear Walt until i write again, yours Truly Walt,  Pete              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00285.html," Walt Whitman to William D. O'Connor and Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Sep 27, 1868",0.434244526044,"  New York, September 27, 1868.                                  Dear friend,              I received your note, with                 Ferdinand Freilegrath's address, at Cologne. I have called on Mr. Westermann, who seemed to                 think, upon the whole, that the best way to reach F. F. would be to direct to him to                 care of his publisher, J. G. Cotta, at Stuttgart, Germany. I should like to make up                 a package for F. F.   but most that I want send him is there in Washington.                 Still, I may attempt it here. I will write you further about it.              I am having pleasant quiet times here   am occupied a little, & loafe around                 a great deal   am having fixed up, & bound, (partly printed too,) the                 remainings of Leaves of Grass, edition 1867   as there are none on hand, &                 there is a small demand. Am also writing &c a little.  My dear mother I find in unusual health & spirits, for one of her age. We are                 moving into the new quarters   much more agreeable & roomy, when settled,                 than the old ones. My brother George is well & hearty. Eddy the same. Mother                 sends her love to you & Nelly.  I received yesterday a kind note from Dr. Channing,                 offering me hospitality at Providence. I shall gladly accept   shall certainly                 make them a visit of a few days before I return to Washington.  I am rooming at Mrs. Price's, but spend a great part of every day with Mother, always                 taking dinner there. The journey to & fro, & especially crossing the ferry,                 & resuming my acquaintance with the pilots, is quite a part of my pleasure here.  I had quite an interview tete-a-tete with John Swinton a few                 nights ago. He is much more deeply impressed with Leaves of                     Grass than I had supposed   said that the more he read it, the more it                      imprest                                       him with the meanness & superficiality of all current literature &                 journalism   went on in a strain that would have answered your & John                 Burroughs's extremest demands, &c.              Swinton has lately been posting himself about William Blake, his poems   has the                 new London edition of W. B. in two vols. He,                 Swinton, gives me rather new information in one respect   says that the formal                 resemblance between several pieces of Blake, & my pieces, is so marked that he,                 S, has, with persons that partially know me, passed them off temporarily for mine,                 & read them aloud as such. He asked me pointedly whether I had not met with                 Blake's productions in my youth, &c   said that Swinburne's idea of                 resemblance &c was not so wild, after all. Quite funny, isn't it?              Tell John Burroughs I send him my love, & I wish you to let him have an                 opportunity of reading this letter, if he desires to. Charles Eldridge the same. Is Ashton there, & well   & what news in the office?  To Nelly. Dear Nelly. I am writing this in my room at Mrs. Prices. We had rain all last night, and now a                 rainy, cloudy, dark Sunday. I was down late to breakfast this morning   had a                 good breakfast though   nobody home but Mrs. Price & Mr. Arnold   I                 like the latter more than formerly   after breakfast we sat leisurely & had                 a good chat   subject, the Roman Catholic religion   anent of Mrs. Rein's                 sister & adopted sister being Catholics. When I rose I said I was going up to my                 room to write to you & William   there were warm expressions from                 both   Mrs. Price charged me to give her love to you, to William, & to                 Jeannie   Mr. A. said ""Give my love to Mrs. O'Connor, she is a woman I                 like   Mr. O'Connor I believe I have never seen."" Good bye for the present,                 dear friends.  Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/rdi.00002.html," Walt Whitman to William Francis Channing ,","Sep 27, 1868",0.434244526044,"  New York,                     September 27, 1868.                                  My dear Dr. Channing:              I yesterday received your kind note. I gladly accept your invitation & hospitality.                  My leave of absence continues for some time yet, & I should probably like to visit you                  for a few days, just subsequently to the middle of October   But I will write you a day or two before I come.              I send my best respects & love to Mrs. Channing. As I write we are having a rainy,                  dark sulky Sunday   after a rainy night. I am well & quietly enjoying holiday.              I wish you & wife to read my last piece in The Broadway                  London Magazine for October. You can get it at any good bookstand.               Walt Whitman.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01584.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Sep 29, 1868",0.434516523868,"  Sept 29.                                  Dear boy Pete,              It is splendid here to-day, & I am feeling first-rate. We have had quite a                  dark & rainy spell   but now the prospect is good weather, clear sky,                  bright sun, coolish, & no dust. I shall spend an hour or two on the river to-day.                  Your letter of 27th, Sunday, came this morning. Also two Stars, 25th & 26,                  the latter with Hinton's speech, the other containing an item about me.                  The previous Star arrived with your note of 23d, written just as you were                  going to see the Black Crook   & next morning another Star came.                  Peter, you are a good boy, & shall have your reward in Heaven, if not on earth.              Now how about that cold? I see you went to work Saturday. You seem to be                  under the weather more than I thought. Dear comrade, I hope this will find you all right                  & well as ever. I suppose you are working this week. Yesterday I spent most                  of the day in Brooklyn helping the folks to finish up the moving business.                  Got through just after dark. I have not been to any amusements yet.                  Somehow I dont seem to care about them, & I go around enough during the day.                  There is considerable political excitement here   banners swung across the streets                  almost every block, & big transparences in front of the different headquarters.                  I have seen several splendid torch-light processions, & outdoor meetings, &c.                  Of course the great majority in New York & Brooklyn is for Seymour & Blair. To Jim Sorrell: Dear Jimmy: You may not understand it, what that lady said about the bedfellow business,                  but it's all right & regular   besides, I guess you understand it well enough.                  Jimmy, dear boy, I wish you was here with me   we could have such good times.                  I send you my love   & to Charley the same   Mention how Charley's young one is getting along    I will now bid you good bye for this time, my loving friend, & God bless you, dear comrade,                  & keep you all right. I will write a line to No. 6, & will speak to the other boys in my next.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/uva.00362.html," Peter Doyle to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 1, 1868",0.434788521692,image 1image 2image 3image 4  Washington                     Oct 1st                                  Dear Walt              I received your letter of the 29th yesterday the 30th inst & was very glad to hear you was doing so well I am happy to state that I am well & doing well in fact everything is doing firstrate at present we have had quite a little alteration in R. R. matters since i wrote last which got the boys up to the highest pitch of excitement Mr Dunning has resigned his position as President of the Road & Mr Riker also of New york has taken his place I expect you will remmember Riker as being President of the Road for a short time before they have also Issued new rates in regard to carrying Baggage & Market Baskets                               hereafter it will be as follows for a large trunk 4. fares middlen size 3. fares small one 2 fares for a large market basket 2 fares small one 1 fare for a small Valise 1 fare so you see we have a lively time with the Passengers carrying out such rules. you remember when you went away that at about the same time Mr Noyes went away on a pleasant trip he has wrote several letters for the Star which i expect you have noticed you will find an interesting letter in Wednesday paper which i sent you it is about chicago I see today that several of the Departments which has been stopping work at 3 o clock has commenced to work until 4 o'clock I showed your letter to Jimmy Sorrill & it tickled his very much as he did not know that i told you what he said about that                                                                     young lady. he sends his best love I also reminded you Pastie[illegible] to Tom Hassett & it pleased him very much he also sends his best love. Dave Henry Hunt & the californian ' Towers & all the rest of the boys sends love & best respects to you we have had some splendid weather for 3. or 4 days but it is clouding up today & i expect more wet weather. I hear that the Rickings opera troupe is playing to very good Houses i have not been to see them yet Gen. Frank Blair has been here this week but the Democracy did not turn out as they usually do when some big fellow arrives I expect you will get tired of so much scribbling as its done with a lead pencil & very often in the car                  yours truly                 Pete              
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01594.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle , 23 ( ?","Oct 1, 1868",0.434788521692,"  Dear Pete,              Well here I am back again in New York   Have had a pleasant trip down east   went down the bay there after I wrote you last   & also a visit around among                  the factories of Rhode Island. Some of them are very large   regular little towns.                  The Spragues, two brothers, employ 7000 workmen in their factories alone.                  Some of the owners are men of immense wealth. I write this early in the forenoon,                  sitting in my room in 55th street, after breakfast. As to getting my leave extended                  so that I might stay to vote, I have settled (as I spoke of in a former letter)                  to pair off with a friend of mine here who was going to vote for Seymour, and                  return on time. The weather is cool & clear to-day. I shall probably not make                  out much [of] a letter to you this time, Pete, as I feel rather stupid yet this                  morning. I guess I slept too hard, or perhaps, as they say, I got up wrong end                  foremost. But I thought I would write one more letter, for the last. I believe                  it is about the eleventh. I hope you have enjoyed reading them as much as I                  have writing them   for that, I have enjoyed. You too have done first rate,                  & have sent me as many as I have you, and good letters too. I am now going                  out down town, & across to Brooklyn, to spend a few hours with my mother.                  I don't know whether I told you that my sister with her two young children                  from St. Louis, arrived the night before I left N. Y. & will stop with                  mother this fall & winter   her health is not very good.              I shall return 26th. Take care of yourself. Dear Pete, we will soon be together again. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01586.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Oct 2, 1868",0.434924520604,"  Oct 2                                  Dear boy and Comrade              You say it is a pleasure to you to get my letters   well, boy, it is a real pleasure                  to me to write to you   I just write off-hand, whatever comes up, and,                  as I said before, mostly about myself & my own doings. [There have been some]                  tremendous fires   the one [in] Brooklyn   eight or ten first-class steam                  engines   Tell Harry on No 11, he would see quite a change in the                  Fire Dep't. Pete, if you see Pittsburgh either tell him the following,                  or let him have this letter, & then return it to you. Write how David Stevens                  is, & write how he is getting along.              I have more than I can attend to here. I find myself surrounded by friends,                  many old ones, some new ones, some young & attractive, & plenty of invitations                  & amusements. I have received an invitation from a gentleman & wife, friends                  of mine, at Providence, R. I., and shall go there & spend a few days latter                  part of October. How about the cold? I hope it is well. Dear Pete, with all my                  kind friends here & invitations, &c., though I love them all, & gratefully                  reciprocate their kindness, I finally turn to you, & think of you there.              Well, I guess I have written enough for this time. Dear Pete, I will now bid you                  good bye for the present. Take care of yourself, & God bless you, my loving comrade.                  I will write again soon.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01587.html," Walt Whitman to Henry Hurt ,","Oct 2, 1868",0.434924520604,"  Oct 2.                                    Dear friend Harry Hurt,              I thought I would just drop you a line for yourself   but no doubt you keep                  fully posted about me by my letters to Pete, as I am willing you or                  any of my particular friends who wish to, should read them.                  (He knows who I would be willing should read them   I leave it to him)   Harry, you would much enjoy going round N. Y. with me, if it were possible,                  & then how much I should like having you with me. This great city,                  with all its crowds, & splendor, & Broadway fashion, & women, & amusements,                  & the river & bay, & shipping, & the many magnificent new buildings,                  & Central Park & 5th Avenue, & the endless processions of private vehicles                  & the finest teams I ever saw, for miles long of a fine afternoon   altogether they make up a show that I can richly spend a month in enjoying   for a change from my Washington life. I sometimes think I am the particular                  man who enjoys the show of all these things in N. Y. more than any other mortal   as if it was all got up just for me to observe & study. Harry,                  I wish when you see Ben. Thompson, conductor, you would say I sent                  him my love, & have not forgot him. Let him read this letter. I send                  him a newspaper, the N. Y. Clipper. I have marked the piece about the                  Five Points. I went down there myself just for fun, three nights ago,                  with a friend of mine, a policeman, & that account in the Clipper is a very good                  description   only not half rank enough. I wish you to tell John Towers, conductor,                  I sent him my love, & we will see each other again one of these days. I send him                  a Clipper also with an acc't of the Five Points   Harry, you let one of them                  lend you the paper, & read the acc't   it will amuse you   I was there two hours   it was instructive but disgusting   I saw one of the handsomest white girls                  there I ever saw, only about 18   blacks & white are all intermingled         "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00286.html," Walt Whitman to William D. O'Connor ,","Oct 4, 1868",0.435196518428,"  New York,                     October 4, 1868.                                       Dear friend,              I suppose you received my letter of September 25. The letters to me from A. G. office,                  (I suppose sent by you,) have probably all come right. I have received some                  five or six. Please continue to send them the same way. If the envelopes run out,                  please prepare some more, same form. When you write, tell me what news in the                  A. G. office. Is Ashton well? Is he running the office? Say to him                  I sent my love   & that, here north, as it seems to me, the Grant                  & Colfax tide is rising higher & higher every day.              Did you see John Swinton's warm ¶ about my illustrious self in                  N. Y. Times, 1st instant? Give my best love to John Burroughs,                  & show him this note to read. J. B., dear friend, I wish I could have you here,                  if only just to take a ride with me for once up & down Broadway, on top a stage, of a fine afternoon.              I send my love to Charles Eldridge   By a wretched oversight on my part I                  missed an appointment with him at Fifth Av. Hotel, when he passed through New York.              William, I shall send Freiligrath a small package, containing a copy of L. of G.                  with John's Notes, a Good Gray Poet &c.                  in a couple of days from here, by the European Express. I wish, if you feel                  like it, you would prepare a letter to F. F. to go by mail   following the package.              Nelly, my dear friend, I send you my best love   in which my mother joins me   We are all well. Half my leave has already expired   & the other half will be soon over.                               Affectionately                 Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01588.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Oct 6, 1868",0.435468516252,"  Oct 6                                  Dear Pete,              There is nothing special with me to write to you about. The time slips away mighty quick.                  It seems but a day or two since I left Wash, yet I am now on the fourth week of my furlough.                  Last night was about the greatest political show I ever saw, even in New York   a grand                  Democratic meeting & torch-light processions. I was out in the midst of them, to see the sights.                  I always enjoy seeing the city let loose, and on the rampage, as it was last night                  to the fullest extent. I cannot begin to tell you how the Democrats showed themselves                  by thousands & tens of thousands. The whole city was lit up with torches.                  Cannons were fired all night in various parts of the city. As I was on my way home                  in a 2d av. car between 12 & 1 o'clock we got blocked in by a great part of the returning procession.                  Of course we had to just stand & take it. I enjoyed it hugely from the front platform.                  They were nearly an hour passing us, streaming both sides. In the procession were all sorts of objects,                  models of ships, forty or fifty feet long, full-manned, cars of liberty with women,                  &c &c. The ranks spread across the street, & every body carried a blazing torch.                  Fireworks were going off in every direction. The sky was full of big balloons,                  letting off rockets & Roman candles, 'way up among the stars. The excitement, the rush,                  & the endless torches, gave me great pleasure. Ever & anon, the cannon, some near some distant.                  I heard them long after I got to bed. It sounded like a distant engagement.                  I send you the Herald with a sort of account of the show, but it doesn't do                  half justice to it. The speeches were of no account at all.              I suppose you got a letter & paper from me Saturday, Oct 3. I rec'd your welcome letter of Oct 1, also the Star. I read Mr. Noyes                  western letters with pleasure. So you have something new in RR   new officers & rules.                  The RR business here is very different. They go through these long routes                  on the rush   no mercy to cattle. The 3d av. RR. lost 36 horses in one day                  last summer, one of those hot days. We are having pleasant weather just now,                  seems like Indian summer. So long, dear Pete. From your loving comrade.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01583.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Oct 9, 1868",0.435876512988,"  Oct 9                                  Dear Pete,              It is splendid here this forenoon   bright and cool. I was out early taking a                 short walk by the river   only two squares from where I live. I received your                 letter of last Monday   also the Star same                 date   & glad enough to hear from you   the oftener the better. Every                 word is good   I sent you a letter, on the 6th, which I suppose you rec'd next                 day. Tell Henry Hurt I received his letter of Oct. 5 all right, & that it was                 welcome. Political meetings here every night. The coming Pennsylvania & Ohio                 elections cause much talk & excitement. The fall is upon us. Overcoats are in                 demand. I already begin to think about my return to Washington. A month has nearly                 passed away. I have received an invitation from a gentleman & his wife, friends                 of mine, at Providence, R. I. & shall                 probably go there & spend a few days, latter part of October. I am grateful to these young men on the RR. for their love & remembrance to                 me   Dave, & Jim & Charley Sorrell, Tom Hassett,                 Harry on No. 11. Every day I find I have plenty to do   every hour is occupied with something.                 Shall I tell you about it, or part of it, just to fill up? I generally spend the                 forenoon in my room, writing &c., then take a bath, fix up & go out about                 12, & loafe somewhere, or call on some one down town, or on business, or perhaps                 if it is very pleasant & I feel like it, ride a trip with some driver-friend on                 Broadway from 23d street to Bowling Green, three miles each way. You know it is a                 never-ending amusement & study & recreation for me to ride a couple of                 hours, of a pleasant afternoon, on a Broadway stage in this way. You see everything                 as you pass, a sort of living, endless panorama   shops, & splendid                 buildings, & great windows, & on the broad sidewalks crowds of women,                 richly-dressed, continually passing, altogether different, superior in style &                 looks from any to be seen any where else   in fact a perfect stream of people,                 men too dressed in high style, & plenty of foreigners   & then in the                 streets the thick crowd of carriages, stages, carts, hotel & private coaches,                 & in fact all sorts of vehicles & many first-class teams, mile after mile,                 & the splendor of such a great street & so many tall, ornamental, noble                 buildings, many of them of white marble, & the gayety & motion on every                 side   You will not wonder how much attraction all this is, on a fine day, to a                 great loafer like me, who enjoys so much seeing the busy world move by him, &                 exhibiting itself for his amusement, while he takes it easy & just looks on                 & observes. Then about the Broadway                 drivers, nearly all of them are my personal friends. Some have been much attached to                 me, for years, & I to them. But I believe I have already mentioned them in a                 former letter. Yesterday I rode the trip I describe with a friend, on a 5th Avenue                 stage, No. 26   a sort [of] namesake of yours, Pete Calhoun. I have known him 9 or 10 years. The day was fine, & I enjoyed the trip                 muchly. So I try to put in something in my letters to give you an idea of how I pass                 part of my time, & what I see here in N. Y. Of course I have quite a                 variety   some four or five hours every day I most always spend in study,                 writing, &c. The other serves for a good change. I am writing two or three                 pieces.  I am having finished about 225 copies of Leaves of Grass bound up, to supply orders.                 Those copies form all that is left of the old editions. Then there will be no more                 in the market till I have my new & improved edition set up & stereotyped,                 which it is my present plan to do the ensuing winter at my leisure in                     Washington.              Mother is well, I take either dinner or supper with her every day. Remember me to                 David Stevens & John Towers. Tell Harry on No 11 I will go                 [to] the Hall again & see if I can find that man in the Sheriff's office. I send you my love,                 & so long for the present. Yours for life, dear Pete,                 (& death the same).    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/uva.00363.html," Peter Doyle to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 14, 1868",0.436556507548,image 1image 2  Washington                     Oct 14.4                                  Dear Walt              Since i received your Papers last monday i have been Very anxious to write to you but the Death of one of my Cousins delayed me somewhat & yet there is nothing unusual going on here I believe the road is running the same as when you went away with the exception of our new President During Monday & Tuesday there was a good deal of excitement over the elections in the several states but today it has got back to old standing there is also a report out here that there was a Plot to assasinate the President but i dont think there is any truth in the report                  all the boys send their love                 Pete                 x x              I sent you a letter last sunday 
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01590.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Oct 14, 1868",0.436556507548,"  Oct. 14                                  Dear boy Pete,              There is great excitement here over the returns of yesterday's elections,                  as I suppose there is the same in Washington also   the Democrats look blue enough,                  & the Republicans are on their high horses. I suppose Grant's success is now certain.                  As I write, the bands are out here, parading the streets, & the drums beating.                  It is now forenoon. Tonight we will hear the big guns, & see the blazing bonfires.                  It is dark & cloudy weather here to-day. I was glad to get your letter of Friday,                  9th which is the last   also a Star at same time. Also this morning, Star and Express                  to 12th. I suppose you rec'd mine of the 9th & the papers. I am about as well as usual.                  Mother is well, & my brothers the same. I am going to-morrow to Providence, R. I.,                  to spend a few days. Should you write any time within four or five days after receiving this,                  direct to me care of Hon. Thomas Davis, Providence, R. I.  My friend O'Connor is quite unwell, and is absent from Washington away down                  on the New England coast. I received a letter from him yesterday.                  I believe I told you I was finishing up about 230 copies of my book,                  expecting to sell them. I have had them finished up & bound &c. but there                  is a hitch about the sale, & I shall not be able to sell them at present.                  There is a pretty strong enmity here toward me, & L. of G., among certain classes   not only that it is a great mess of crazy talk & hard words, all tangled up,                  without sense or meaning, (which by the by is, I believe, your judgment about it)   but others sincerely think that it is a bad book, improper, & ought to be denounced                  & put down, & its author along with it. There are some venemous but laughable                  squibs occasionally in the papers. One said I had received 25 guineas for a piece                  in an English magazine, but that it was worth all that for any one to read it.                  Another, the World, said ""Walt Whitman was in town yesterday, carrying the                  blue cotton umbrella of the future."" (It had been a drizzly forenoon)   So they go it.                  When they get off a good squib, however, I laugh at it, just as much as any one.              Dear Pete, I hope this will find you well & in good spirits. Dear boy,                  I send you my love. I will write you a line from Providence. So long, Pete.               Walt              I have been debating whether to get my leave extended, & stay till election day to vote   or whether to pair off with a Democrat, & return (which will amount to the same thing.)                      Most likely I shall decide on the latter, but don't know for certain. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00287.html," Walt Whitman to William D. O'Connor ,","Oct 14, 1868",0.436556507548,"  New York,                     October 14, 1868                                   Dear friend,              I only write to say that I have received your welcome letter of the 9th, from Jamestown   & that   as Mrs. Paulina Davis has been here, & has, in her own & husband's behalf,                  kindly invited me, & indeed made the arrangements   I shall come on to Providence,                  to-morrow, 15th   they to meet me at the depot, & take me home as their guest   from whence I shall report to you, & to Dr. & Mrs. Channing forthwith   & fulfil my promised visit to them also, before I return here   which will be about 21st or 22d.                               Affectionately                 Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01591.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Oct 17, 1868",0.436964504284,"  Providence R. I.                     October 17.                                   Dear Pete,              According to announcement in my last, I have made a movement & change of base,                 from tumultuous, close-packed, world-like N. Y., to this half-rural, brisk,                 handsome, New England, third-class town. I came on here last Thursday. I came as                 guest of Thomas Davis, formerly M. C. from this city   arrived between 8 and 9                 o'clock at night   found his carriage at the depot waiting for me   at the                 house (a sort of castle built of stone, on fine grounds, a mile & a half from                 the town) a hearty welcome from his hospitable wife, & a family of young ladies                 & children   a hot supper, a tip-top room &c. &c.   so you see,                 Pete, your old man is in clover. I have since been round the city & suburbs                 considerably. I am going down to Newport before I return. Invitations &c. are                 numerous. I am, in fact, already dividing myself between two hospitalities, part of                 the time with Mr. & Mrs. Davis, and part with Dr. & Mrs. Channing, old                 acquaintances of mine in another part of the city. I stopt last night at the house                 of the latter. It is on a high & pleasant hill at the side of the city, which it                 entirely overlooks. From the window of my room, I can look down across the city, the                 river, and off miles upon miles in the distance. The woods are a real spectacle,                 colored with all the rich colors of autumn. Yesterday it was beautiful & balmy                 beyond description, like the finest Indian summer. I wandered around, partly                 walking, partly in a carriage, a good part of the day. To-day there is an entire                 change of scene   As I sit writing this   what do you think,                 Pete?   great flakes of snow are falling, quite a thick                 flurry   sometimes the wind blows gusts   in fact a real snow storm has been                 going on all the forenoon, though without the look or feeling of actual winter as                 the grass & foliage are autumnal, & the cold is not severe yet. Still it                 [is] disagreeable & wet & damp & prevents me from going out. So I will                 make it up by writing a couple of letters   one to mother, & one to you,                 telling you about things. Providence is a handsome city of about 70,000                 inhabitants   has numerous manufactories in full operation   every thing                 looks lively. From the house up here, I can hear almost any time, night or day, the                 sound of factory bells & the steam whistles of locomotives half a mile distant.                 Then the lights at night seen from here make a curious exhibition. At both places I                 stop, we have plenty of ripe fresh fruit and lots of flowers. Pete, I could now send                 you a bouquet every morning, far better than I used to, of much choicer flowers.  And how are you getting along, dearest comrade? I hope you are well, & that every                 thing is going on right with you. I have not heard from you for a good while, it                     seems. I suppose                 you got my last letter, 14th, from N. Y. I expect to return to N. Y. about the 22d.                 Should you feel to write after receiving this, you might direct to 331 East 55th st.                 as before. I am well as usual. I am luxuriating on excellent grapes. I wish I could                 send you a basket. At both places I stop they have vineyards, & the grapes are                 very good & plenty this year. Last night, when I went up at 11 o'clock to my                 room, I took up three great bunches, each as big as my fist, & sat down and eat                 them before I turned in. I like to eat them this way, & it agrees with me. It is                 quite a change here from my associations & surroundings either in Washington or                 New York. Evenings & meal times I find myself thrown amidst a mild, pleasant                 society, really intellectual, composed largely of educated women, some young, some                 not so young, every thing refined & polite, not disposed                 to small talk, conversing in earnest on profound subjects, but with a moderate                 rather slow tone, & in a kind & conciliatory manner   delighting in this                 sort of conversation, & spending their evenings till late in it. I take a hand                 in, for a change. I find it entertaining, as I say, for novelty's sake, for a week                 or two   but I know very well that would be enough for me. It is all first-rate,                 good & smart, but too constrained & bookish for a free old hawk like me. I                 send you my love, dear Pete. So long. Will write from N. Y.                 soon as I return there.  W W              P.S. Just after 12 o'clock   noon   as I am just finishing, the storm                     lightens up   I am sure I see a bit of blue sky in the clouds   yes,                     the sun is certainly breaking out.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01592.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Oct 18, 1868",0.437100503196,"  Providence, R. I.                     October 18, 1868                                   Dear boy & comrade,              I sent off a letter to you yesterday noon, but towards evening Mr. Davis brought me                  up from the p. o. yours of the 15th, which I was so glad to get that you shall                  have an answer right off. After the flurry of snow I told you of yesterday morning,                  we had a pleasant clear afternoon. I took a long walk, partly through the woods,                  and enjoyed it much. The weather was pretty cold & sharp, & remains so yet.                  As I left my overcoat in Washington, I have been compelled to get something here   so I have bought me a great iron-grey shawl, which I find very acceptable.                  I always had doubts about a shawl, but have already got used to mine, & like it                  first rate. In the evening, I went by invitation to a party of ladies & gentlemen   mostly ladies. We had a warm, animated talk, among other things about Spiritualism.                  I talked too, indeed went in like a house afire. It was good exercise   for the fun of the thing.                  I also made love to the women, & flatter myself that I created at least one impression   wretch                  & gay deceiver that I am. Then away late   lost my way   wandered over the city,                  & got home after one o'clock.              The truth is, Peter, that I am here at present times mainly in the midst of female women,                  some of them young & jolly   & meet them most every evening in company   & the way in                  which this aged party comes up to the scratch & cuts out the youthful parties                  & fills their hearts with envy is absolutely a caution. You would be astonished,                  my son, to see the brass & coolness, & the capacity of flirtation & carrying on                  with the girls   I would never have believed it of myself. Brought here by destiny,                  surrounded in this way   & as I in self defence would modestly state   sought for,                  seized upon & ravingly devoured by these creatures   & so nice & smart some of them are,                  & handsome too   there is nothing left for me   is there   but to go in. Of course,                  young man, you understand, it is all on the square. My going in amounts to just talking                  & joking & having a devil of a jolly time, carrying on   that's all. They are all                  as good girls as ever lived. I have already had three or four such parties here   which, you will certainly admit, considering my age & heft, to say nothing of                  my reputation, is doing pretty well.              I go about quite a good deal   this is as handsome a city, as I ever saw.                  Some of the streets run up steep hills. Except in a few of the business streets,                  where the buildings are compact   in nine-tenths of the city, every house stands separate,                  & has a little or quite a deal of ground about it, for flowers, & for shade or fruit trees,                  or a garden. I never saw such a prosperous looking city   but of course no grand                  public buildings like Washington.              This forenoon I have been out away down along the banks of the river & cove,                  & making explorations generally. All is new to me, & I returned quite tired.                  I have eat a hearty dinner. Then I thought I would come up & sit a while in my room.                  But as I did not feel like reading, I concluded to write this precious screed.                  Fortunate young man, to keep getting such instructive letters   aint you?                  It is now four o'clock & bright & cool, & I have staid in long enough.                  I will sally forth, on a walk, & drop this in the P. O. before supper.                  So long, dear Pete   & my love to you as always, always.               W              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00288.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Oct 19, 1868",0.437236502108,"  Providence, R. I.                     October 19, 1868.                                  Dear Nelly,              I will just write you a line or two, anyhow. I am stopping the last three days here with Doctor and Jeannie & having a very pleasant time indeed   only Jeannie has had something of a bad spell   but is quite bright & comfortable this morning, & presided at breakfast. William is here   which adds much indeed to the pleasure of my visit   William has not recovered from an annoying cold, yet does pretty well   I have seen Mrs. Whitman, & like her   have seen her & talked &c. three times   have seen Miss Nora Perry   am going this afternoon to Thomas Davis's to stay two or three days, & then return to New York   whence in two or three days more, to Washington. Mother is quite well for an old woman of 74   speaks of you   is now in her new quarters   much roomier & pleasanter. Sister Martha & her two little girls have come on from St. Louis, and are now living with mother. George & Eddy are well. Mrs. Price & her girls are well & in good spirits   I am enjoying my vacation agreeably, but moderately   as becomes a gentleman of my size & age. Give my love to Mr. and Mrs. Ashton   also to Charley   also to dear little Jeannie   It will not be long, Nelly, before I shall be with you all again. Best love to you, dearest friend.  Walt.              My last letter to William was also to you   though I suppose you did not see it yet. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01593.html," Walt Whitman to Charles W. Eldridge ,","Oct 20, 1868",0.43737250102,"  Providence, R. I.                     October 20, 1868                                  Dear Charley,              If the next Sunday Morning Chronicle contains a ""personal"" about me, would you do me the favor to get                 half a dozen copies, & keep for me? I shall doubtless return about the                 26th   as my leave expires that day. (I wished to stay to vote, but have paired                 off with a vehement Seymourite, an old friend of mine.) I suppose Nelly received a                 letter I sent her yesterday, to your care. I am writing this in my room at Mr. & Mrs. Davis's. I came here yesterday, after                 three most agreeable days with Dr. Channing & Jeannie. As I write, we are                 expecting a call from William O'C. as he promised yesterday to come over & see                 Mrs. D. and myself, & spend an hour or two. This afternoon, after dinner, Mr.                 Davis whom I like, & get along with first rate, is going to take me out to ride,                 down to the Point, as I wish to see more of the harbor & bay. I am treated on                 all sides with the greatest hospitality & courtesy   & yet left just as                 free as I wish to be. It is beautiful fall weather to-day. I go back to New York                 & Brooklyn on Thursday next. I am profoundly impressed with Providence, not only for its charming locality &                 features, but for its proof & expression of fine relations, as a city, to                 average human comfort, life, & family & individual independence &                 thrift   After all, New England for ever!   (with                 perhaps just one or two little reservations)   With love to you,                 Charley   & repeated again to dear Nelly.                   Yours truly                 Walt.              P.S.   Later   2 o'clock   William & Dr. Channing have been over                     here   staid  to dinner   We had quite a gay time   indeed quite a                     little dinner party   William & Doctor, Mr & Mrs. Davis, Nora                         Perry, George Davis,                     Katy Hinds, & illustrious self   We are                     just through   Doctor has gone home, not wishing to leave Jeannie too                     long   William still remaining   I go presently on the drive with Mr.                     D.   and also to deposite this letter in P. O. W. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/pml.00027.html," Walt Whitman to Abby H. Price ,","Oct 21, 1868",0.437508499932,"  Providence, R. I.                     October 21, 1868                                  Dear Abby,              I shall return to New York to-morrow, Thursday   leaving here at ½ past 12, noon,                  and getting in N. Y. about 8   & intend to go on to Washington on Monday next, 26th.                  I have been at the Channings's   Jeannie is quite unwell   but bears it like the heroine she is   William O'Connor is there   I am now at Mr. & Mrs. Davis's   Am treated with the                  greatest hospitality & courtesy every where. Yesterday Mr. Davis took me out riding   went down to Fields' Point, off the bay   & thence to the domain & factories                  of the Spragues, & so to Olneysville &c &c   as interesting a ride                  & exploration as I ever had in my life    I have seen Mrs. Whitman   & like her. We had yesterday here to dinner & spend                  the evening Nora Perry, Wm O'Connor, Dr. Channing, &c   To-day Mrs. Davis had                  intended to take me out riding, but it is threatening rain, wind east, & skies dark   So it will have to be given up. I like Mr. Davis much. I am very glad I made                  this jaunt & visit   Love to you, Helen, Emily, & all.               Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/duk.00654.html," Walt Whitman to John Burroughs ,","Oct 22, 1868",0.437644498844,"  Providence, R. I.                     October 22, 1868                                  Dear friend,              I have been thinking about you this morning, and will write a few lines,                  though without any thing special to communicate. My vacation is nearly done,                  & in four or five days more I shall be back in Washington. I have been here in                  Providence the past week, as guest of Thomas Davis, a manufacturer here,                  & formerly M. C.   have had a good time generally, in a quiet way   am going on to New York this afternoon, & shall be back in Washington on the 27th    William O'Connor is here in Providence   I have been with him a good deal   he is not very well, but goes around   Will finish my letter in New York,                  & mail it thence to-morrow.               Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00402.html," Walt Whitman to Newton Benedict and Mrs. Newton Benedict ,","Oct 25, 1868",0.43805249558," [Writing from New York, Walt Whitman informed the Benedicts of the date                     of his return to Washington.] "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/mhs.00027.html," Walt Whitman to Thomas Jefferson Whitman ,","Oct 25, 1868",0.43805249558,"  New York,                     Sunday forenoon, Oct. 25 1868.                                  Dear brother Jeff,              I suppose you rec'd the letter I wrote four or five days ago from Providence, R. I.                  I came back Thursday night, & was over home on Friday. I received your letter.                  Matty has had an examination of her lungs, by Dr. A. D. Wilson, 30 Gates Av.                  near Clinton av. I had not seen Dr. W.   it was the Thursday before I returned   yesterday I went down to see Dr. Enos, waited some time, but did not see him   I intended to make an appointment, & go down with Mat but, as I say, came away                  without seeing him   Then I went up to Gates av. & found Dr. Wilson in, & had a                  long talk with him about Mat. The impression he made upon me was that he is a                  man who knows his business thoroughly, very candid, & probably a little disposed                  to state things on the most unfavorable side, rather than the other   He said he could tell better in ten or twelve days   one of Mat's lungs is affected   thinks there is no imminent danger at all   thinks that the physician in St. Louis                  who advised a change from there here, couldn't have had any knowledge of Brooklyn                  climate or situation   nevertheless thinks that the journey & a temporary change                  will be very salutary, & do her good   advised whiskey, wine, condensed milk, &c   did not advise any drug medicines   was evidently interested, & took hold of the                  case not merely as a matter of business   After seeing him & talking [to] him,                  I abandoned the idea of consulting Enos   at least for the present.              My idea is that Matty has the possibilities of consumption in her system   but that with ordinary good luck, she can & will get over it. She has good spirits,                  is very comfortably situated   has a good, cheerfull, warm room, with southern exposure   has a good stove, gas, &c   Upon the whole, as to personal surroundings, &c                  she could not be happier in them   for Mother, & George, & Ed too, think & do                  every thing that the tenderest mother & brothers could   George is very kind   Mat realizes it all perfectly, & is herself very kind & affectionate as indeed she always was.              Mother & all wish you to arrange without fail to come on, on or before 1st December   before,                  if convenient   Mother is well, but shows her old age more & more. I return to Washington to-morrow,                  as my leave is up. The little girls are hearty as ever. Best love     Walt.              It is certain that her cough is not near as bad here as it was in St. Louis, in that house.                  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00266.html," Walt Whitman to Francis P. Church ( ? ) ,","Nov 2, 1868",0.439140486876,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington.                     Nov. 2, 1868                                  My dear Sir,              As you have not found the little piece ""Ethiopia Commenting"" available, allow me to withdraw it   Indeed I have already sent it to another quarter.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00403.html," Walt Whitman to John Flood , Jr. ,","Nov 22, 1868",0.441860465116,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington, D. C.,                     Nov. 22, 1868.                                   Dear Jack Flood,              I received your welcome letter, and was happy to know that you had not forgotten me   for I have thought of you many times since. I returned here from New York about four weeks ago,                  and have been and now am working in this office as usual   am well and hearty,                  and don't hurt myself with hard work. Our hours are from 9 till 3.              You speak of coming here and paying me a visit. Dear boy, I hope you will come truly,                  for it would be a great comfort to me if we could be together again. I don't know whether                  it would be very pleasant to you here, Jack, for this is a stupid place compared to New York   but we would have each other's society, and that would be first rate.              There's not much excitement in Washington   at least none that I take any interest in.                  Politics and politicians carry the day here   but I meddle with them very little.                  In a couple of weeks more, Congress will meet, and then the city will be quite lively.              I am out a good deal in the open air, as I have plenty of leisure time.                  It is fine scenery around Washington   plenty of hills, and a noble river.                  I take a ride on the cars out to Georgetown west, or Navy Yard east, once in a while                  of a pleasant afternoon, or Sunday   but I tell you I miss New York.                  We had a long spell of splendid weather. But now it is colder, with some                  snow a couple of days since. Jack, you must write often as you can   anything from my loving boy will be welcome   you needn't be particular about the writing   you might write in the car with pencil, when you have any time. I will write to you too.                  I will now close for this time. Dear Jack, I send you my love.               Walt Whitman.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/duk.00655.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Nov 24, 1868",0.44213246294,"  Attorney General's Office, Washington. Nov. 24, 1868.                  Dearest Mother,              I suppose you got my letter last Saturday, 21st   All goes along at present the                 same old story   nothing new in the office   I shall be glad when Grant                 comes in, & a new Attorney Gen'l appointed   if I weather it out till                 then   though I am well enough off, at present, & probably safe   I                 don't think there is any show for Mr. Evarts remaining here after Grant comes in    We are having a splendid spell of weather again, after the storm of Saturday                 last   To-day it is very fine   I should like to be with you on                 Thanksgiving, Thursday   I shall take dinner at my boarding house   Mrs.                     Benedict told me yesterday to bring any of my friends to dinner I wanted                 to   I still have the same room   I make a fire mornings, & have it                 quite comfortable    Is Jeff home? Martha must keep up good                 spirits   I have no doubt she will get all right again   I approve                 what you advised her about the wine   it is as George said, you can't get any                 real pure port wine   I shall keep watch of the place in Western Pennsylvania I                 spoke of, & if they have any genuine wine, as I was informed they would in                 January, I shall get some for Martha    Has George done any thing about the Portland av. house, yet? Write to me all the news. Your letter came last week, &                 was welcome. I am quite busy to-day   have several jobs of work in the office                 that keep me hard at it    Love to you, dearest mother   & to all    I have had to scratch off my letter in a hurry, but I wanted you to have something,                 according to promise in my last.   Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00414.html," Walt Whitman to an Unidentified Printer ,","Nov 25, 1868",0.442268461852,"  November 25, 1868                                It suits me first rate the way you have set it up   print 20 copies   give me good clear impressions. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/dar.00004.html," Walt Whitman to Ralph Waldo Emerson ,","Nov 30, 1868",0.442948456412,"  Attorney General's Office                     Washington Nov. 30, 1868.                                  Dear Mr. Emerson:              On the eve of sending the enclosed piece abroad, I have taken a notion to first offer it to                  the Atlantic   and, if not too great a liberty, to solicit your services for that purpose.              I would be much obliged if you would take it in to Mr. Fields the first time you go to Boston   show him this letter   If available at all, I propose it for about the February number of the magazine.                  The price is $100, & 30 copies of the number in which it may be printed   and I will ask Mr. Fields                  to do me the favor to send me an answer within a week from the time he receives the piece   or perhaps he can give his decision at once on receiving it.                  With best respect & love,                 Walt Whitman.              The piece appears in printed form because I have had it put in type for my own convenience,                      and to insure greater correctness   I forgot to say, above, that I scrupulously reserve the                      right to print this piece in future in my book   (which, however, will not be for several months.)                  W. W. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01681.html," Walt Whitman to John Harrison Littlefield ,","Dec 1, 1868",0.443084455324,"image 1image 2                                        Attorney General's Office,                                                      Washington, Dec. 1, 1868.                                  Mr. Littlefield.                 Dear Sir:              I have been very much occupied, since I saw you   & wish you to accept my apoligies                  for not coming to see you, & sit, &c. I appreciate your courtesy, & invitation   & hope to be soon more at leisure, & in the vein for sitting.               Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01682.html," Walt Whitman to James T. Fields ,","Dec 8, 1868",0.444036447708,"  sent Dec 8, '68                                  J. T. Fields,                 Dear Sir:              Your letter has come to hand, with the check for $100, as payment in full for                 the piece ""Proud Music of the Sea-Storm""   leaving me, however, the right to                 print it in future book. Please when ready send me proof, which I will return                 forthwith. Please send me, by                 express, 30 copies of the number, when ready, to my address here.                  With thanks & best respects,              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01683.html," Walt Whitman to Samuel W. Thayer ,","Dec 8, 1868",0.444036447708,"  sent Dec 8, '68                                  Dr. Thayer,                 Dear Sir:              Won't you do me the very great favor to write me a few lines regarding the condition of my sister,                  Mrs. H. L. Heyde. I am sure, from what I hear, that it is mainly to your medical skill,                  and your kindness as a good man, that she got through her late illness.                  She seems by her letters to be left in an extremely nervous state.                  Doctor, please write me as fully as you think proper. Though we have never met personally,                  I have heard of you from my mother & sister. I must ask you to keep this letter,                  and the whole matter, strictly confidential, & mention it to no person. My sister in a late letter,                  wished me to write you & thank you for your great kindness to her.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01595.html," Walt Whitman to John Flood , Jr. ,","Dec 12, 1868",0.444580443356,"  sent Dec 12 '68                                   Dear Jack,              I send you a few lines, though there is nothing new or special with me.                  I am still working here in the same place, and expect to be here all winter   (yet there is such a thing as a man's slipping up in his calculations, you know.)                  My health keeps good, & work easy. I often think of you, my loving boy,                  and think whether you are all right & in good health, & working on 2d avenue yet.              I suppose you received the letter I sent you. I got yours November 15,                  & sent you a letter about the 20th or 21st I believe. I have not heard from you since.              Congress began here last Monday. I have been up to see them in session. The halls they meet in are magnificent.                  The light comes all from the roof. The new part of the Capitol is very fine indeed.                  It is a great curiosity to any one that likes fine workmanship both in wood & stone.                  But I hope you will come here & see me, as you talked of   Whether we are indeed to have the chance                  in future to be much together & enjoy each other's love & friendship   or whether worldly affairs are to separate us   I don't know. But somehow I feel (if I am not dreaming)                  that the good square love is in our hearts, for each other, while life lasts.              As I told you in my previous letter, this city is quite small potatoes after living in New York.                  The public buildings are large & grand. Most of them are made of white marble, & on a far grander scale                  than the N. Y. City Hall; but the oceans of life & people, such as in N. Y. & the shipping &c,                  are lacking here. Still a young man ought to see Washington once in his life, any how.                  Then I please myself with thinking it will be a pleasure to you to be with me.                  Jack, I want you to write to me often as you can.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01571.html," Walt Whitman to John Morley ,","Dec 17, 1868",0.445260437916,"  Dec. 17, '68                                   John Morley,                 Dear Sir:              I send you an original piece of mine, in hopes it will be found available for say the                  March Number of your magazine. The price is 4 pounds   $20   in gold   and four copies of the number in which it is printed, sent me by mail.              Please send me an answer, with decision, by next or succeeding mail.              My address is Attorney Gen's office, this city. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/owu.00019.html," Walt Whitman to George Palmer Putnam ,","Dec 17, 1868",0.445260437916,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington Dec. 17, 1868.                                  Mr. Putnam.                 Dear Sir:              Would the enclosed piece be available to you for say the March number of your monthly?              The price is $45   and 30 copies of the number in which it may be printed.              I have had it put in type for my own convenience, & to insure greater correctness.              May I ask you the favor to send me your decision within a week?               Walt Whitman              I reserve the right of printing the piece in future book.                   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01995.html," Benton H. Wilson to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 27, 1868",0.446620427037,"image 1image 2image 3image 4image 5  Syracuse                     Dec 27th/68                                  Walt Whitman                 Dear Friend              I suppose you will think by this time that I have forgotten my Dear old Friend by my long silence & neglect to answer your letter, or acknowledge the receipt of your paper that you was so kind as to send me, but I assure you that I have not forgot you but sill remember you with the same Love that [commenced?] in Armory Square Hospital & will not cease as long as life lasts. There is not a day that passes but what I think of you & promise myself that I will not delay writing to you any longer but as often I break my promise. We have had excellent Sleighing here for the past two or three weeks                                                     and it still continues to be good & all that can afford it seem to enjoy it very much. I am at work in the Melodeon & Piano Factory of A. C. Chase again and shall probably continue there this winter. My health is very good. Father has been quite sick for a week but is improving now. Father & Mother send their Love to you. Our Baby Walt is a fine boy now & as bright as a dollar. I hope to have the pleasure of showing him to you someday. If you come to New York next summer & cannot come up and make me a short visit let me know when you are coming and if my business will permit I will meet you at new york and have a short visit with you there. I hope that the exit of A Johnson & the inauguration of Gen Grant                                                    will restore the country to a Peace footing in a very short time. I gave our Friends the Misses Riley a letter of introduction to you when they were here last fall. have you seen them yet. Hamilton is well as usual & is still running on the Rail Road. He sends his Love to you Hoping you had a merry Christmas & wishing you a happy New Year. I will close for the [present?] Please write soon.                  yours with Love                 B. H. Wilson.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/yal.00124.html," John Flood , Jr. , to Walt Whitman ,","Jan 11, 1869",0.448660410717,"image 1image 2image 3image 4  New York                     Jan 11th/69                                  Mr. Walt Whitman,                 Sir              It is with great pleasure that I sit down with pen in hand to address a few lines to you hoping to find you enjoying good health which same I am enjoying myself. I felt very sorry that I did not see you previous to your departure for Washington We have had a very pleasant New Year in the city and the weather has continued                                                                                       very favorable since with the exception of one snow storm, but as luck would have it I was not exposed to it, for I have been discharged from the Road since New Years Eve and have not done anything since, in fact I have not had a chance to look for anything since because I have been suffering with a very sore foot which has confined me to the house, but I am now able to walk around and hope shall be able to find something to do very shortly as I do not feel contented without working; but still and withal I hope that will not be the cause of separating                                                                     our friendship for no                 matter where I am employed or what it may be at I shall still continue to correspond                 and can never forget your kind friendship towards me                  Wishing you many a Happy Year I remain                 Your True and Ever intimate friend                 John Flood, Jr.                                      No. 50. Governeur St.                     N.Y City.                               "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01684.html," Walt Whitman to Charles F. Blanch ,","Jan 20, 1869",0.449884400925,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington.                     Jan. 20, 1869.                                  Charles F. Blanch                 Dear Sir:              Your note enclosing $3:50 has just been received. I have enveloped & sent you by to-day's mail,                  a copy of ""Leaves of Grass,"" as desired. I have also sent a magazine, containing a piece of mine.               Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/uva.00353.html," Walt Whitman to James T. Fields ,","Jan 20, 1869",0.449884400925,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington.                     Jan. 20, 1869.                                  James T. Fields                 Dear Sir:              The package of February magazines, sent on the 16th, arrived safely yesterday.                  Accept my thanks. I am pleased with the typographical appearance, correctness, &c. of my piece.              I enclose a piece, ""Thou vast Rondure, Swimming in Space,""                  of which I have to say to you as follows. It is to appear in the April number of                  the London Fortnightly Review. Having just received a note from the editor of that Review,                  Mr. Morley, in which he intimates that he has no objection to its appearing simultaneously in America,                  I thought I would show it to you. Very possibly, you will not care any how to print a piece                  which is to appear elsewhere. Should that, however, be no objection, and should you consider                  the piece available for your purposes, the price is $20. Of course it would have to go in your Number for April.                  I reserve the right of printing in future book.                               Respectfully, &c                 Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/har.00054.html," Walt Whitman to Ferdinand Freiligrath ,","Jan 26, 1869",0.450700394397,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington,                     Jan. 26, 1869.                                  Dear Mr. Freiligrath:              I have sent you to-day by ocean mail, a copy of my latest printed Leaves of Grass   not knowing whether you have received the package forwarded for you by a friend of mine last November. I should be well pleased indeed to hear from you. My address is,               Walt Whitman,                 Washington, D. C.                 U. S. America              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00289.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Feb 1, 1869",0.451516387869,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington.                     18 Tuesday, 2d Feb.    Dearest mother                 I am still troubled with a severe cold in my head   I suppose it is that which causes me                  to have these bad spells, dizziness in the head   I have them a great deal lately;                  sometimes three or four in an hour    The 20 per cent bill came up again in Congress yesterday, & was rejected again   I don't think there is much chance for it   It looks as though we are going to have snow   feels cold & raw   I am sitting at my desk in the office writing this   there is not much to do to-day in the office    Wednesday afternoon. It commenced snowing yesterday noon, & stormed all day,                  & a rain at night   I have been out to-day   not any work hardly in the office   still I have to be around   it is a dark & muddy day here   a young man has just been in with a photograph of me   his mother had bought it at a place here, & sent it to me for me to write my name   I gratified him   They have taken a very good little photo of me here lately   I will send you one before long   It is now three o'clock, & the colored man has commenced to clean up   so I will vamose    Great excitement here among the politicians   Cant tell who will be the new Attorney General under Grant   but don't think Mr. Evarts will continue on   still I don't know    Saturday forenoon. Feb. 6th. Mother, your letter has just come this forenoon   You must not worry about Han   one can't tell any thing about it   but it is probable things go on with them just as they always did   I believe I shall write to Han again   shall not say any thing about Heyde, of course    We have had a cold snap here   but this forenoon it is very pleasant, bright, & comfortable enough   I did not have any bad spells in the head yesterday   nor, so far, to-day   My cold in the head has been extremely bad, & is not well yet   Went up to Ashton's Thursday evening to spend the evening with some company   had supper about 9 o'clock.              I get along pretty well at the old boarding house   I suppose it is about as well as I could do any where   I make a fire these cold mornings, to wash & dress by   it has been very cold lately    Monday forenoon Feb. 8. Well, mother, I will finish my letter & send it off   I thought to send it yesterday, Sunday, but did not come down to the office. All goes on the same with me   it is now about 11 oclock, and very pleasant   I am rather busy to-day with work in the office   but nothing to hurt   I have had a present of the most beautiful red rose you ever see   I have put it in a little glass of water, on my desk   Love to you, dearest mother, & George & all.  Walt              one of the 50cts is for Ed. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01943.html," Charles Warren Stoddard to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 2, 1869",0.455460356317,"image 1image 2image 3image 4  1869 Honolulu. Hawaiian Islands.                     2nd March.                                  To Walt Whitman.              May I quote you a couplet from your ""Leaves of Grass""?                                                                                                      ""Stranger! If you, passing, meet me, ""and desire to speak to me, why ""should you not speak to me? ""And why should I not speak to you?""                                                                                             I am the stranger who, passing, desires to speak to you. Once before I have done so, offering you a few feeble verses. I do not wonder you did not reply to them. Now my voice is stronger, I ask, why will you not speak to me? So fortunate as to be traveling in these very interesting islands I have done wonders in my intercourse with these natives.                                                                     For the first time I act as my nature prompts me. It would not answer in America, as a general principle, not even in California where men are tolerably bold. This is my mode of life:   At dusk I reach some village, a few grass huts by the sea or in some valley. The native villagers gather about me, for strangers are not common in these parts. I observe them closely. Superb looking, many of them. Fine heads. Glorious eyes that question, observe and then trust or distrust with an infallible instinct. Proud, defiant lips, a matchless physique, grace and freedom in every motion. I mark one, a lad of eighteen or twenty years who is regarding me. I call him to me, ask his name                                                                                      giving mine in return. He speaks it over and over, manipulating my body unconsciously, as it were, with bountiful and unconstrained love. I go to his grass-house, eat with him his simple food, sleep with him upon his mats, and at night sometimes waken to find him watching me with earnest, patient looks, his arm over my breast and around me. In the morning he hates to have me go. I hate as much to leave him. Over and over I think of him as I travel: he doubtless recalls me some times, perhaps wishes me back with him. We were known to one another, perhaps twelve hours. Yet I cannot forget him. Any thing that pertains to him now interests me. You will easily imagine, my dear sir, how delightful I find this life. I read your Poems with a new spirit, to understand them as few may be able to. And I wish more than ever that I might possess a few lines from your pen. I want your personal magnetism to quicken mine, how else shall I have it? Do write me a few lines for they will be of immense value to me. I wish it were possible to get your photograph. The small Lithograph I have of you is not wholly satisfactory. But I would not ask so much of you. Only a page with your name & mine as you write it   Is this too much? My address is San Francisco, Cal Box 1005. P. O. I shall immediately return there.                  In all places I am the same to you.                 Chas. Warren Stoddard..              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01289.html," Francis P. Church to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 4, 1869",0.455732354141,"image 1image 2image 3image 4                                                EDITORIAL OFFICE OF THE GALAXY,                         NO. 40 PARK ROW,                                                                   New York,                          Mar 4, 1869                                                      My dear Sir:              I am sorry not to be able to use your poem in the April Galaxy. I supposed the poem had gone back to you                                                                    as it should have done some time ago.                  I am                 Very truly yours,                 F. P. Church                                      Mr. Walt Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/tex.00189.html," Walt Whitman to Charles F. Blanch ,","Jun 4, 1869",0.468244254046,"  Attorney General's Office Washington,                     June 4, 1869                                  Dear Sir:              Your letters have been received. I cordially accept your appreciation & sympathy.              I send you, same mail with this, a copy of my book, as requested   Also a copy of Mr. Burroughs's ""Notes,"" which I have procured. Also a late photograph,                  accompanied by a picture taken in 1855, very good at the time. Also a late newspaper.              Since the book, there have been several pieces of mine, in magazines.                  I will endeavor to procure them, (or some of them,) & forward you.                               I send you my thanks & good will.                                  Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01685.html," Walt Whitman to Charles Warren Stoddard ,","Jun 12, 1869",0.469332245342,"  Washington,                     June 12, 1869                                  Charles W. Stoddard,                 Dear Sir:              Your letters have reached me. I cordially accept your appreciation, & reciprocate your friendship.                  I do not write many letters, but like to meet people. Those tender & primitive personal relations                  away off there in the Pacific Islands, as described by you, touched me deeply.              In answer to your request, I send you my picture   it was taken three months since. I also send a newspaper.              Farewell, my friend. I sincerely thank you, & hope some day to meet you.               Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01687.html," Walt Whitman to Alfred Pratt ,","Jul 1, 1869",0.47191622467,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington.                     July 1, 1869                                  Dear Alfred Pratt,              I am still here in Washington, & work in the same office   My health is good,                  & there is nothing specially new or important with me since I wrote you last.                  I have received your letters. Dear boy, I would like to see you, that we might be together once more,                  even if but for a little while   I have thought I would try to journey out your way, for a few days   but it dont seem practicable just at present    I hope you are well   you must write me a good long letter all about your affairs & yourself   all will be interesting    I send you my love, & to your parents also   Tell them I hope yet to meet them   Good bye, dear young man   I too have not forgotten those times when you lay sick in the hospital   & our love for each other   such things are not easily forgotten   Some day I will try to come out there, & we will see each other again.  Walt Whitman              I send you a newspaper with a piece in about me, that may interest you. I send it same mail with this.                  Good bye, my loving boy    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/pml.00029.html," Walt Whitman to Abby H. Price ,","Jul 16, 1869",0.47395620835,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington.                     July 16, 1869                                  Dear Abby,              Every thing here goes on pretty much the same with me. My health has been good since I last saw you.                  It is very monotonous here, & I sometimes feel like pulling up stakes in desperation   Abby, I have little to write about, only I wanted to write you something   I hear from you occasionally                  by mother's letters   What a good girl Helen is, to go and make those nice calls on mother   I am grateful to her for so doing,                  & hope she will continue always   the same good affectionate Helen   & indeed I am sure she always will be    It is very hot weather here   to-day it is 96 or '7   I am sitting here at my desk in the office   there is quite a breeze pouring in the window, but it is a warm wind   half our clerks are away on vacation. I shall leave Washington soon after the middle of August   then I will see you all, & we will have some good talks.              Good bye, dear Abby   I send my love to Emily, & all   The O'Connors are well   Jenny grows like every thing.                               Affectionately                 Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01518.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Aug 21, 1869",0.478852169183,"  Brooklyn, N. Y.                     Saturday evening   Aug. 21                                  Dear Pete                 I have been very sick the last three days   I dont know what to call it   it makes me prostrated                  & deathly weak, & little use of my limbs. I have thought of you, my darling boy, very much of the time.                  I have not been out of the house since the first day after my arrival. I had a pleasant journey                  through on the cars Wednesday afternoon & night   felt quite well then. My Mother & folks are all well.                  We are in our new house   we occupy part & rent out part. I have a nice room, where I now sit writing this.                  It is the latter part of the afternoon. I feel better the last hour or so. It has been extremely hot here                  the last two days   I see it has been so in Washington too. I hope I shall get out soon.                  I hanker to get out doors, & down the bay.              And now, dear Pete, for yourself. How is it with you, dearest boy   and is there any thing different with the face? Dear Pete, you must forgive me for being so cold the last day & evening.                  I was unspeakably shocked and repelled from you by that talk & proposition of yours   you know what   there by the fountain. It seemed indeed to me, (for I will talk out                  plain to you, dearest comrade,) that the one I loved, and who had always been so manly                  & sensible, was gone, & a fool & intentional murderer stood in his place.                  I spoke so sternly & cutting. (Though I see now that my words might have appeared                  to have a certain other meaning, which I didn't dream of, insulting to you, never for                  one moment in my thoughts.) But I will say no more of this   for I know such thoughts must                  have come when you was not yourself, but in a moment of derangement   & have passed away like a bad dream. Dearest boy, I have not a doubt but you will get well, and entirely well   & we will one day look back on these drawbacks & sufferings as things long past.                  The extreme cases of that malady, (as I told you before) are persons that have very                  deeply diseased blood, probably with syphilis in it, inherited from parentage,                  & confirmed by themselves   so they have no foundation to build on. You are of healthy stock,                  with a sound constitution, & good blood   & I know it is impossible for it to continue long.                  My darling, if you are not well when I come back I will get a good room or two in some quiet place,                  (or out of Washington, perhaps in Baltimore,) and we will live together, & devote ourselves                  altogether to the job of curing you, & rooting the cursed thing out entirely,                  & making you stronger & healthier than ever. I have had this in my mind before,                  but never broached it to you. I could go on with my work in the Attorney General's office                  just the same   & we would see that your mother should have a small sum every week to keep the pot a-boiling at home.              Dear comrade, I think of you very often. My love for you is indestructible,                  & since that night & morning has returned more than before.              Dear Pete, dear son, my darling boy, my young & loving brother, don't let the devil                  put such thoughts in your mind again   wickedness unspeakable   murder, death & disgrace here,                  & hell's agonies hereafter   Then what would it be afterward to the mother? What to me?    Pete, I send you some money, by Adam's Express   you use it, dearest son, & when it is gone,                  you shall have some more, for I have plenty. I will write again before long   give my love to Johnny Lee, my dear darling boy, I love him truly   (let him read these three last lines)   Dear Pete, remember     Walt              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00290.html," Walt Whitman to William D. O'Connor ,","Aug 23, 1869",0.479124167007,"  Brooklyn, August 23, 1869.                  Dear William O'Connor:              I was very ill after my arrival here   & made worse by the heat   but                 have recovered   & to-day, Monday, feel about the same as formerly.                 Mother is well, & sends her love to you all   mother asked a great deal                 about Nelly, and also about Jenny    My brother George is remarkably well & robust this summer   he was out in all                 the excessive heat of the three latter days of last week, & came home every                 evening to his supper, unflagging, & full of strength & fun   I quite                 envied & admired him   especially as I felt deathly weak   indeed                 despicable   but, as before said, I think I am all right again now    I have not been out yet   havn't heard any news of special interest, literary or                 other   havn't seen Mrs. Price   but shall begin to explore, this                 week   & will report in my next    Dear Nelly, I had an unusually pleasant journey that afternoon & evening in the                 cars   felt quite well   enjoyed my lunch, the cold tea, &c   got                 in at Jersey City a few minutes after 10, not a bit tired   Nothing very new                 from my sisters Mat or Hannah   Eddy is as usual    Jenny, my darling, I must not forget to put in a line for you too, & send my                 love    William, do you see how Mrs.                     Stowe & the Atlanticites are getting cuffed & smitten front & rear,                 anent of the Byron resurrectionism? The papers are all having articles about                 it   & all condemn the Atlantic article.  Walt.              My address is 101 Portland av. opp. Arsenal Brooklyn, New York. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01520.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Sep 3, 1869",0.480620155039,"  Brooklyn,                     September 3, 1869,                                  Dear Pete,              I thought I would write you a letter to-day, as you would be anxious to hear. I rec'd                 your letter of Aug. 24, & it was a great comfort to me. I have read it several                 times since   Dear Pete, I hope every thing is going on favorably with you. I                 think about you every day & every night. I do hope you are in good spirits &                 health. I want to hear about the face. I                 suppose you are working on the road. There is nothing new or special in my affairs or doings. The weather is pleasant                 here   it is pretty cool & dry. My folks all continue well   mother                 first rate, & brothers ditto. I do not have such good luck. I have felt unwell                 most every day   some days not so bad. Besides I have those spells again, worse,                 last longer, sick enough, come sudden, dizzy, & sudden sweat   It is hard to                 tell exactly what is the matter, or what to do. The doctor says it is all from that                 hospital malaria, hospital poison absorbed in the system years ago   he thinks                 it better for me in Washington than here.  About one third of the time I feel pretty well. I have taken three or four of my                 favorite rides on Broadway. I believe I described them to you in my letters a year                 ago. I find many of my old friends, & new ones too, & am received with the                 same warm friendship & love as ever. Broadway is more crowded & gay than                 ever, & the women look finer, & the shops richer   then there are many                 new & splendid buildings, of marble or iron   they seem to almost reach the                 clouds, they are so tall   some of them cost millions of dollars.  Staging in N. Y. has been very poor this summer   9 or $10, even on the big                 Broadway lines   Railroading has also been slim. New York is all cut up with                 railroads   Brooklyn also   I have seen Jimmy Foy   he was over to Brooklyn, looking for work on a road. He was well &                 hearty, & wished to be remembered to you. They pay $2½ on many of the                 roads here, & 2¼ on the rest. The work is pretty hard, but the hours not so                 long as in Washington. There is all kinds of fun & sport here, by day & night   & lots of                 theatres & amusements in full blast. I have not been to any of them   have                 not been to see any of my particular women friends   though sent for, (the                 papers here have noticed my arrival)   have not been down to the sea-shore as I                 intended   In fact my jaunt this time has been a failure   Better luck next                 time    Now Pete, dear, loving boy, I don't want you to worry about me   I shall come                 along all right. As it is, I have a good square appetite most of the time yet, good                 nights' sleep   & look about the same as usual, (which is, of course,                 lovely & fascinating beyond description.) Tell Johnny Lee I send him my love,                 & hope he is well & hearty. I think of him daily. I sent him a letter some                 time ago, which I suppose he rec'd about Aug. 26, & showed you   but I                 have not had a word from him. Lend him this letter to read, as he will wish to hear                 about me.  God bless you, dear Pete, dear loving comrade, & Farewell till next time, my                 darling boy.   Walt.              101 Portland av. opposite the Arsenal, Brooklyn, New York "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01522.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Sep 10, 1869",0.481572147423,"  Brooklyn,                     Friday afternoon, Sept. 10, 1869.                                  Dear Pete   dear son,              I have received your letter of the 8th to-day   all your letters have come                 safe   four altogether. This is the third I have sent you (besides that one by                 Adams' Express, Aug. 23d.)              Pete, you say my sickness must be worse than I described in my letters   &                 ask me to write precisely how I am. No, dearest boy, I wrote just as it really was.                 But, Pete, you will now be truly happy to learn that I am feeling all right, &                 have been mainly so for the last four days   & have had no bad spells all                 that time. Yesterday I thought I felt as strong & well as ever in my                 life   in fact real young & jolly. I loafed around New York most all                 day   had a first-rate good time. All along Broadway hundreds of rich flags                 & streamers at half-mast for Gen. Rawlins'                 funeral   From the tall buildings, they waved out in a stiff west wind all                 across Broadway   late in the afternoon I rode up from the Battery to look at                 them, as the sun struck through them   I thought I had never seen any thing so                 curious & beautiful   On all the shipping, ferry boats, public buildings                 &c. flags at half mast too. This is the style here. No black drapery, for                 mourning   only thousands of flags at half mast, on the water as well as                 land   for any big bug's funeral. To-day I am all right too. It is now towards 3   Mother & I have just had our                 dinner, (my mammy's own cooking mostly.) I have been out all the forenoon knocking                 around   the water is my favorite recreation   I could spend two or three                 hours every day of my life here, & never get tired   Some of the pilots are                 dear personal friends of mine   some, when we meet, we kiss each other (I am an                 exception to all their customs with others)   some of their boys have grown up                 since I have known them, & they too know me & are very friendly. Pete, the fourth week of my vacation is most ended. I shall return the middle of next                 week. Give my love to Johnny Lee   let him read this letter, & then return it to you. Dear                 Jack, I rec'd your affectionate letter of Sept. 5th. Pete, I have seen Tom Haslett   he is well   he is working extra on Broadway &                 42d st. RR. He does not think of going home till Christmas. Jimmy Foy has not got work yet. I suppose you got ""Kenilworth"" I sent. Well, boy, I shall now take a bath, dress myself & go out, cross the river, put                 this letter in the p. o. & then ramble & ride around the City, awhile, as I                 think we are going to have a fine evening & moonlight &c. Good bye, dear son   We will soon be together again.  Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/prc.00023.html," Walt Whitman to Washington Friends ,","Sep 13, 1869",0.481980144159,"  Brooklyn                     September 13, 1869.                                  My friends,              I shall return to Washington either on Wednesday next, 15th or                  Thursday, 16th   Shall probably come in the train which gets in at 10:15 p.m.               Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01689.html," Walt Whitman to William D. O'Connor ,","Sep 28, 1869",0.484020127839,"  Attorney General's Office, Washington, Sept 28, 1869.                                  Dear William O'Connor:              As you were interested in Mr. Parton's money-borrowing                 item about me, I enclose you the receipts signed & given me by his Attorney at                 the time, (June, 1857.) The sum borrowed by me of Mr. Parton was Two hundred                 dollars. He had, just before, kindly volunteered the loan himself, without the least                 request or hint from me. I then declined, but afterward borrowed the money, &                 gave a short-time Note. I felt soon, & feel now, that it was a great impropriety                 on my part, & it has caused me much compunction & real unhappiness since.                 Any how when the time for paying the note came, I had no money. Mr. Parton then put                 the matter in the hands of his Attorney, Mr. Oliver Dyer, who sued. My recollection                 is that I confessed judgment, & proposed to Mr. Dyer that he should receive                 payment in goods. He came by appointment to my room in Classon avenue, Brooklyn,                 June 17, 1857, talked over the matter, behaved very kindly, positively accepted                 there & then, & conveyed away, goods to the amount of One hundred and eighty                 one dollars, and receipted for them, on account. He also, for the balance,                 conditionally accepted other goods, (which he also conveyed away with him,) on the                 agreement between us that if they, when more deliberately examined, proved                 acceptable, they would requite the balance, & the debt would be considered paid;                 otherwise they would be returned, & the balance would still stand against me.                 These goods he retained, and subsequently told me that they had proved acceptable,                 and consented to give me a receipt in full, & satisfaction paper   but, (I                 think,) said the latter would require the signature of Mr. Parton. This was a                 meeting either in the street, or on the Brooklyn ferry. On meeting him afterwards in                 a similar way, once or twice, I mentioned the matter of a receipt in full, but never                 pressed it   never procured such receipt, nor the original note either. I consider the debt paid   (though if I had wealth,                 to-day, I should certainly pay it over again, in cash.) Among the goods rendered I                 remember an oil painting, an original, of marked beauty & value, by Jesse                     Talbot, illustrating a scene                 from Pilgrim's Progress, worth from four to five hundred dollars. This I put, if I                 remember right, at one hundred dollars. I presume Mr. Dyer or Mr. Parton has it yet. The enclosed receipt, marked 1, was, on turning over the goods,                 written by me & signed, by Mr. Dyer, who then remarked that he would also give                 me one in more technical form, and wrote, signed, & handed me the receipt marked                     2   I presume, (but do not know for                 certain,) that Mr. Dyer considers the debt fully paid. (The balance of thirty five dollars mentioned, besides the one hundred & eighty                 one includes sixteen dollars as Mr. Dyer's fee, or more probably costs of suit, over                 & above the original two hundred.)   Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/prc.00024.html," Walt Whitman to Francis P. Church and William C. Church ,","Nov 15, 1869",0.490548075615,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington,                     Nov. 15, 1869.                                  Messrs Church,                 Dear Sirs:                               I write a line with reference to my piece ""Brother of All with generous hand,""                  (commemorative of George Peabody,) handed to W. C. Church here three or four days since. I suppose it ought to appear, if at all, in the January Number.              Please send me proof forthwith. Direct to me this office.               Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/upa.00097.html," Walt Whitman to William M. Rossetti ,","Dec 9, 1869",0.493812049504,"  Washington,                     December 9, 1869.                                  Dear Mr. Rossetti,              Your letter of last summer to William O'Connor with the passages transcribed from a lady's correspondence have been shown                 me by him, and a copy lately furnished me, which I have just been re-reading. I am                 deeply touched by these sympathies & convictions coming from a woman, & from                 England, & am sure that if the lady knew how much comfort it has been to me to                 get them, she would not only pardon you for transmitting them to Mr. O'Connor, but                 approve that action. I realize indeed of such an                 emphatic & smiling Well done from the heart &                 conscience of a true wife & mother, & one too whose sense of the poetic, as                 I glean from your letter, after flowing through the heart & conscience, also                 comes through & must satisfy Science, as much as the esthetic, that I had                 hitherto received no eulogium so magnificent.              I send by same mail with this, same address as this letter, two photographs, taken                 within a few months. One is intended for the lady (if I may be permitted to send it                 her)   and will you please accept the other with my respects & love? The                 picture is by some criticized very severely indeed, but I hope you will not dislike                 it, for I confess myself to a (perhaps capricious) fondness for it as my own                 portrait over some scores that have been made or taken at one time or another. I am still at work in the Attorney General's office. My p. o. address remains the                 same, here. I am, & have been, quite well & hearty. My new editions,                 considerably expanded, with what suggestions &c. I have to offer, presented, I                 hope, in more definite, graphic form, will probably get printed, the coming spring.                 I shall forward you early copies. I send my love to Moncure Conway, if you see him. I wish he would                 write to me, soon & fully. If the pictures don't reach you, or if they get                 injured on the way, I will try again by express. I wish you to read or loan this                 letter to the lady   or, if she wishes it, give it to her to keep.  Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01445.html," Thomas Dixon to Walt Whitman ,","Dec 23, 1869",0.495716034272,"image 1image 2image 3image 4image 5image 6                                       15 Sunderland Street.                     Sunderland.                                                       Dec 23, 1869                                  Dear Sir and Friend  Thy letter and the photograph is to hand all safe. Newspaper seems to have been appropriated on the way either by thy people                 or by mine. let us hope to [above?] the                 two lots hath fallen it may be profitable to body and                 Soul. I have had news from Sister. Some letters hath gone astray sent by me,                  and also by me. Such accidents I suppose is  uncommon in the Post Office when one                 considers the amount of letters sent the wonder is that some more does not go                 astray. when one thinks of the quantity of letters sent it seems really amazing how                 few seems to miss there destination! However I trust no more Books to their care in                 future. A Parcel of a few I will send you in a few weeks. I delay simply because                 when I do send you I wish to send you really representative Books? and shall send                 them by parcel                      Despatch                                       then they are answerable for their delivery or Value thereof. I write you                 in haste because I wish to save you trouble in                      enquiring                                       respecting Sister, who is now in communication with us  all again, and who                 will recieve what I hope will enable her to buy some piece of your Native Land, and                 to then Have for herself and husband and Family. Thy recognition of my loss goes to                 my heart. I feel in thee a friend. my love for thee                 through thy printed utterances has been more then recompenced by thy kind words. My parcel and its contents will speak to thee                 more then I can write thee. I love nearly all the Men thou lovest and all the Books                 and thoughts that seem congenial to thee long hath been to me. I gaze on the Sea                 while I eat my food and think of thee in the [illegible]  of summer I gaze on the sea, and in the morning also    and often while I gaze                 thereon I think of thee, and how thou loves that sea, and how to thee it hath been                 more then to me. I love also those on the Sea, as the small matters sent to thee                 does prove how dear they are to me. again even now my eldest Lad is now in Japan is                 second voyage to [Celina?]  and yet only 16 years old   my youngest is also now                 learning a trade are that I suppose you know well too. (House                     Joiner.) He I hope someday will visit your Land. my two lads I would like                 to see settled there on Land, only I do not know if it may ever be. Such is their                 fathers Hope. Your Books still are out on Loan they have                 made many a journey since they came to me, they are as follows. Burroughs W. W. the                 Man & the Poet. Connor's Good Gray Poet.                                     Conway's Notice in Fortnightly. Your Poems in Tinsley & Broadwood. these go from hand to hand here in my town and in                 the district amongst all sorts of people   Unitarian Ministers, Joiners,                 Carpenters, Ship Carvers, Watchmakers, Potters, [illegible]latters, Shipwrights, Boiler Makers,                 Blacksmiths and others, even amongst Quakers in Manchester too has your Books now                 become Known . . all love you simply because you seem to love all. I have long wished for someone to arise that                 would once again through the Spirit working upon them, open the hand of fellowship                 to all Humanity   the poor, the outcast, the learned, the unlearned, you seem in your Life to have done this so                 we love you   as a true Manifestation amongst us                                    once again of the Spirit of the Great                 Teacher, and by your actions and your teachings you compell us to love and admire                 you, because in your Life you have lived that which you have written for us. Ah! how few that love                 Christ and his teachings see or apprehend that to do them is really what He meant when                 he asked them to become His disciple. I hope these few scratches may convey to you                 why I love you, and why we all love you, and why we long for your Portrait. Many, Many thanks for it, and thy kind letter, and noble                 recognition of us all. May thou long be spared to the people and our people too likewise.                   Thine, thankfully                 Thomas Dixon              In the Good deeds of Humanity is the true Unity                     of God made Manifest to Humanity. Nations, Peoples, tongues, or speeches are but                     segments of a great All. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00291.html," Walt Whitman to William D. O'Connor ,","Dec 23, 1869",0.495716034272,  William              I wish to send a little box of grapes to Nelly   please go down to the Central Produce store on the N. side Avenue bet. 10th & 11th sts & get them when you go to dinner     Walt              
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/duk.00392.html," Charles L. Heyde to Walt Whitman ,","13 1, 1870",0.49694002448,"image 1image 2image 3image 4  Burlington                     June 13 70                                  Walter Whitman              Han has received all your letters, also the Radical, containing a very complimentary testimony by a genuine woman, to your ""Leaves of Grass"": Yet you perceive, even the praise she bestowes, [i?]s qualified with the general recoil, which all natures of true human sensibility experience, at your (mistaken) barbarism. The louse and the maggot know as much about procreation as you do, and when you unveil and denude yourself you descend to the level of the dog, with the bitch, merely. But I intended to write of                                   Han only. She is tolerably well. The swelling in her neck has subsided. She makes a half barbarous life for herself, however and allmost  baffles all my efforts at times to humanize her. I have come to view her as a being, half child, wtih small promptings to her social obligations and no longer held her accountable for her ways. Somethings she does very well, but her speech is so vagrant, that, to use her own expression, ""I must not put any meaning in her words."" Her usual supiness, or sluggishness continues. I think it must be in the blood. It is very trying to me. Respecting her neglect in not writing to her mother, it is simply the want of inclination, but she treats her good, kind neighbours, who came and watched over her, during                                                     her last dreadfull sickness the same way. On her recovery she never crossed the street to thank them. I need scarcely explain to you what gratitude is: Han could have done better and saved me great mortification, but her mother in Brooklyn, thwarted my endeavours, by continualy rushing in, and without sufficient occasion, advising separation. Oh! such stupid recklessness and wickedness. The Allmighty, it seems to me, has no gift, in the Future [t?]o amend the unnecessary and degrading experience [I?] have endured. Nor would [I?] enter upon such a life again, after it, were a thousand years of mortal existence promised to me, [(to?] follow) every year to enter upon a different phase of life, each growing brighter and happier than the last, [s?]till ascending upon a [g?]reater scale of grandeur                                                     and felicity. But Han is to remain as she is and where she is. It is imperative: Any positive pressure socialy, or change might prove disastrous. She is looking well, but is never feeling well   has headaches or something. She treats herself too barbarously entirely. Mrs Whitman rather intimates a desire to make Han another visit: She is becoming too aged, and it is as much as Han can do to take care of herself. For my part I have as much care as I desire, and more than I ever anticipated. I have just paid off the mortgage on my house and have sustained myse[lf?] here, not so much upon the merit or appreciation of my paintings, as by a certai[n?] force of character, which has found sympathy among the people.                  Yours truly                 C L Heyde              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01880.html," William Michael Rossetti to Walt Whitman ,","Jan 9, 1870",0.498028015776,"image 1image 2image 3image 4  56 Euston Sq. London, N.W.                     9 Jany. /70                                  Dear Mr. Whitman,              I was exceedingly pleased at receiving your recent letter, & the photograph wh. followed it immediately afterwards. I admire the photograph very much; rather grudge its having the hat on & so cutting one out of the full portraiture of your face, but have little doubt, allowing for this detail, it brings me very near your external aspect. May I be allowed to send you, as a very meagre requital, the enclosed likeness of myself. I gave your letter, & the second copy of your portrait, to the lady you refer to, & need scarcely say how truly delighted she was. She has asked me to say that you                                                                     cd. not have devised for her a more welcome pleasure, & that she feels grateful to me for having sent to America the extracts from what she had written, since they have been a satisfaction to you. She also begs leave, with much deference, to offer a practical suggestion:   that if you see no reason against it, the new edition might be issued in 2 vols., lettered, not vols. 1 & 2, but 1st series & 2nd series, so that they cd. be priced & sold separated when so desired. She adds: ""This simple expedient wd., I think, overcome a serious difficulty. Those who are not able to receive aright all Mr. Whitman has written might, to their own infinite gain, have what they can receive, & grow by means of that food to be capable of the whole perhaps; while he wd. stand as unflinchingly as hitherto by what he has written. I know I am glad that your selections were put into my hands first, so that I was lifted up by them to stand firm on higher ground than I had ever stood on before, & furnished with a golden key before approaching the rest of the poems."" She also,                                                     as a hearty admirer of your original Preface, hopes that that may re-appear   either whole, or such portions as have not since been used in other forms. I know, by a letter from O'Connor, that, since you wrote, you have seen the further observations of this lady wh. I sent over in Nov.   I replied to O'Connor the other day also, still more recently, took the liberty of posting to you a little essay of mine, written for one of our literary societies, on ""Italian Courtesy books"" of the Middle Ages. Some of the extracts I have translated in it may, I hope, be found not without their charm & value. I wrote to Conway giving him your cordial message: probably you know that he was not long ago in Russia. Also I heard the other day from a man I am much attached to, Stillman, of his having re-encountered you in Washington. As he told you, there is a chance   not as yet more than a chance   that I may make my way over the Atlantic for a brief glimpse of America in the summer. If so, how great a delight it will be to me to see & know                                                     you need not, I hope, be stated in words. Perhaps before that I shall have received here the new edition you refer to   another deep draught of satisfaction. I cd run on a great deal further on these & other topics; but shd have to come to a close at last somewhere, & may perhaps as well do so now.                  Yours in reverence & love,                 W. M. Rossetti              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01688.html," Walt Whitman to Alfred Pratt , N. M. Pratt , and John B. Pratt ,","Jan 20, 1870",0.499524003808,"  Attorney General's Office,                      Washington.                     Jan. 20, 1870.                                  Dear son & comrade Alfred Pratt:               I have received your letter of the 14th. So you are going to Kansas, & it would                 seem you think of settling there   so it may be we shall not see each                 other   but I wish you to write to me, & let me know how it goes with                 you   & I hope, dear boy, you will continue to remember me with a love                 which time shall not fade out.  My dear friends,                 N. M. and J. B. Pratt,                  I appreciate your kindness & your hospitable invitations, & I am sure it                 would be a good change & a comfort to me to come out & see you, & be                 with you a few days, surrounded with new scenery, & a farm life   it is what                 I should enjoy of all things   and I hope things may work so that I can come one                 of these days   if so, I will send you word, in advance   The picture of the                 dear daughter will be welcome   I should also like another of my dear loving boy                 Alfred, as soon as he gets any late ones, if he does so    So good bye & God bless you, my dear friends, & my love to all.  Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/prc.00025.html," Walt Whitman to William C. Church and Francis P. Church ,","Feb 8, 1870",0.502107983136,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington.                     Feb. 8, 1870.                                  W. C., & F. P. Church.                 My friends:                               I send you a page & a half piece   ""A warble for lilac-time""   if available for the April Galaxy. If not, for the May number.                  Yours truly                 Walt Whitman.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01860.html," Walter Whitman Reynolds to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 9, 1870",0.502243982048,image 1image 2image 3image 4  New York                     Feb 9. /70                                  Dear friend Walter              I now [take my?] pen in                     h[and to?] let                     [you know how I am                     getting?] along. I am [doing?] well at present & I hope you are the Same. we have had a                 very heavy Snow-Storm here on tuesday it did not aount to [m?]uch as it was very Damp it                     [was?] very bad                 walking here the last [two?] Days I am very Sorry for to Keep you waiting So long for your                 Answer [I?] received                     [your?] letter of the                 Eight & was very glad to hear from you. we have been                      Stoping                                                       [at?] my Sisters for the                 last [few?] weeks & we                 have been very unsettled & that is the reason I did not write before. I am going                 to buy a                      fraim                                       for  your                 Picture I have it [illegible] up in my room I                     wou[ld like?] to see                 you very much it [has been                     a?] long while since I [illegible]                     wh[illegible] think [illegible]                 [Visit to Washington?]                 [illegible] when you were here [illegible] getting along nicely now [illegible] has steady work he [works at?] the pipe yard at                 the foot of twenty-fourth St. East river. [illegible] Boss Mr Hawkins is going to [leave?] the firm the first of march & my friend Oliver                 Allen & I [thought we                     would?] like to make Mr Hawkins a present of a gold Lead Pencil to                 remember [us by.?] I think                 that would be [as useful?]                 an                      Artical                                       as we could give [illegible] we saw a                 very nice gold [Pencil?]                 [illegible] at fairchilds for four Dollars that                 would be two Dollars [a                          peice                         piece                     ?]                                  [If you?] would be so kind                 as to [send?] me two                 Dollars in your next [letter?] you need not send me [any more?] Spending money [for?]                 [illegible]                 [months to?]                 [illegible]                 [illegible]ther [illegible]I must bid you                      good by                                       for the present from your loving friend.  Walter Whitman Reynolds              
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01903.html," Edward C. Stewart to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 25, 1870",0.50441996464,"image 1image 2image 3image 4image 5  Plaister Cove                     Feb 25                                  Dear Friend Walt:              Yours of the twelfth just rec'd was very glad to hear from you. There is some mistake about Peters letters I have received four or five from him, no fear of your ""photo"" not reaching here, wish you had have sent it I would like very much to have yours also Peters if you have a double one of yourself & Peters I would like to have that if not why stir Pete up and make him send me his you send yours also, Yes you may [illegible] you & I down in your log [illegible] two good friends (Even if one old & one young as you say). I supposed by Petes letters that he was as gay as usual, but guess the boy is coming to his senses and thinking about settling down in life and is going to benefit by the numerous opportunities which he has, How does he & the widow pull together now, I suppose Ile find you & Pete in the same box when I return to Washington. I suppose there is gay times at Met'n & Canturbury halls, [Moses?] but I wish I was there with you old Covies for a while, never mind Ile be back very soon now, think Ile stay here till                                                     August or September then will come home for a month at least if not to stay there altogether Ive got a grand chance here with some young Lady whose Pa happens to have some spare cash think he would settle up pretty lively should I take one of his Daughters. He is the American Consul for this place so you see there's no knowing how it may turn out, I am having quite a nice time among the Elite of this place Ive just joined the Sons & Sisters of Temperance ""British Lodge"" & am making fine progress, Rode the cussed Goat last night & feel quite stiff over it, [illegible] I wish you could have heard me speechifying for them you know Everyone has to do that who joins. They wanted me to give them a recitation but twas no go unless they would take that familiar old piece of Peters (Something about the man who could not get his chimney up high Enough to keep his neighbors Thomas cats from putting out his fire) Ha Ha, That would have been fine but the girls up this way are very modest so I got off quite an Elaborate address in which I expressed my Phellow [Phelinx?] to the best of my abilities & wished the cause of                                                     Temperance Everlasting progress & Said I supposed that in the course of a few more years I hoped there would be no such thing as Intemperance, (was interrupted with ""hear"" ""hear"" and any amount of cheering & in the midst of the cheering I brought my speech to a mighty sudden close & sat down the hero of the Evening. Hows that for a Lager beer imbiber Eh, guess it makes you open your Eyes somewhat. I am still improving in health getting more blooming Every Day people who saw me on my way here & who have been here within last month did not recognize the pale youth who passed them last summer. Ime as strong as a buck Eat as much hash & porridge as usual. Ime going to surprise you all when I do come home none of you will know it Just to see if you will recognize the Boy who left Washington some time ago Ive got over my home sickness & am I suppose as hard                                                     hearted as the rest of humanity when theyve left home for the first time determined to enjoy themselves to their utmost but for all that there's no place like home as the song goes. I received several challenges from several young Ladies here, through some very flattering valentines with Something like this inscription on them. ""A hand"" with ""If you can get will you accept"" quite a nice thing but as it came from wrong quarter why I didn't accept. So Ile beg you to Excuse this writing which is done in a very big hurry as I have made an Engagement to go out Driving in Sleigh with ""Her"" & the time is Drawing near a head So Ile close sending you & Peter much Love. PS Tell Pete Ile answer his as soon as rec'd. Snowing here now  Adeau Yours Muchly                 Ed C Stewart              ""Continuation"" Eleven Oclock P.M. Well Walt Ive just returned from that ride I mentioned I was away about twenty miles on the Blue Mountains of Cape Breton had gay time, Saw any amount of Indians of Mickmac Tribe. I've promised that young Lady to show her your picture so you will not Disappoint me. Today I received two papers from Pete I suppose. ""Sunday Chron"" & Balto Sun. No more at present Yours Infernally (as old man ""Weller,"" says in                 Pickwick Ned "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/owu.00004.html," Martha Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 27, 1870",0.504691962464,"image 1image 2image 3image 4  Brooklyn                     Feb 27/70                                  Dear brother Walt              As you know I am in Brooklyn. I will not write about coming here. Jeff started back                 for St Louis this afternoon he was very sorry that he could not see you. but I am                 certainly coming on my way back. Davis is going to leave St L    to build the W                 W of Lowell Mass. it is a very sudden move and made Jeff have to return sooner than                 he expected. I hear from Hattie every few days they get along nicely, and I think the trip will do                 me good I want to remain in Brooklyn till Davis comes on and then I will come to                 Washington Walter dont put yourself out too much to get me a room. you know I am not particular                 and for a few days anything will do. I want to see you very much and as that will be                 soon I wont write a long letter as I can talk so much better.                  from your sister                 Mattie              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/owu.00005.html," Martha Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 1, 1870",0.504963960288,"image 1image 2  Brooklyn                     March 1st /70                                  Dear Brother Walt              We received your letter today and I feel as if you could not get me a room without a great deal of trouble I suppose as Congress is in session that every place is taken up. I was thinking perhaps I could stay the first night with Mrs O Conner as they have invited me to come, I could sleep with Jennie and the next day I will visit Masons and if they should seem clever and ask me to stay with them I will do so. anyway dont bother about it for we will get some place after I get there. the only reason I would like to stop one night with Mr O Conner is that                                          I will get there in the evening and I have no doubt when I call on Masons they will insist on my staying with them Mother says she will not write this week. the draft came all right and when you write again send her some envolopes  she is about as well as usual some days quite lame. I cant say the day I will come but will write again it will be some time next week                  Yours truly                 Mattie              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/har.00036.html," Walt Whitman to Andrew Rome and Thomas Rome ,","Mar 15, 1870",0.506867945056,"  Attorney General's Office, Washington. March 15, 1870.                  Andrew & Thom. Rome,                 Dear friends,              I suppose the MS. of ""Passage to India"" came safe, last week   to be put in type                 as requested   with p. o. order for $10   I write now merely to ask you                 to read the proof carefully by copy   correct carefully   & then send me two                     proofs   put it through as soon as convenient.  Walt.              I have a piece in next Galaxy   about three or four sticks full   about Spring   I wish                     you would just copy it in your paper & send me 10 copies    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01972.html," E. Warner to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 22, 1870",0.507819937441,"image 1image 2                                        Kings County Lunatic Asylum,                                                       Flatbush, L. I.,                      Mch 22d 18670                                      Mr Walter Whitman                 Dear Sir              Your brother Jesse Whitman died very suddenly yesterday from the rupture of an                 Aneurism. As it is uncertain whether this reaches you or not we shall bury the                 body to-morrow.                  Yours Respectfully                 E Warner                 Assist. Phys.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/owu.00006.html," Martha Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 30, 1870",0.508907928737,"image 1image 2image 3image 4                                        St. Louis Water Works,                     ENGINEER'S OFFICE,                     Corner of Fourth and Elm Streets,                                                       ST. LOUIS,                      March 30th, 1870                                  My dear Walt              I suppose you think strange that I hav'nt written you before but I wanted to get some nice paper to send a few lines to Mrs O Conner. but I will enclose a few lines to her in this letter The children were delighted to have me home again and Jeff too seemed to think I was quite an addition to the family. I am glad I went to Brooklyn it has improved me much. but was sorry to find Mammy so lame some days she is very bad. I told Jeff and the children that you are coming                                                                                        to St Louis before long. they are very much delighted and there is another thing Walt Mammy promised me that she would come with you so you see we wont let you off with a promise but you must really come Jeff is well he misses Davis very much but the work goes on well we have delightful weather here everything looks like Spring I am glad I put off my visit to Washington Jeff thinks it best too that I did not go and I still can have it in anticipation. The children send their love and they want you to write to them as I want to write to Mother I will say good night from your sister  Mattie              Walt please say to Mrs O Conner that I am truly sorry that I could not accept her very kind invitation to visit her at Washington. on account of the weather being so changeable this time of year I thought it would be better to return to St Louis The accomodation would have been ample and I should have enjoyed a visit with Mrs O Conner very much indeed Please convey to them my love and express to them my hearty thanks for their kindness   also say to Mrs O C and family that we should very much enjoy having them visit us in St Louis if they could accomplish it  Mattie                  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01944.html," Charles Warren Stoddard to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 2, 1870",0.509315925473,"image 1image 2image 3image 4image 5image 6  1870                     2nd April                 St Francisco Cal                                  To Walt Whitman.              In the name of Calamus listen to me! Before me hangs your beautiful photograph, twice precious, since it is your gift to me. Near at hand lies your beloved vol. and with it the Notes of Mr. Burrough. May I not thank you for your picture and your letter? May I not tell you over and over that where I go your go with me, in poem and picture and the little vol of notes also, for I read and reread trying to see you in the flesh as I so long to see you! I wrote you last from the Sandwich Islands. I shall before long be even farther from you than ever for I think of sailing towards Tahiti in about five weeks. I know there is but one hope for me. I must get amongst people who are not afraid of instincts and who scorn hypocracy. I am numbed with the frigid manners of the Christians; barbarism has given me the fullest joy of my life and I long to return to it and be satisfied. May I not send you a prose idyl where in I                                                                      confess how dear it is to me? There is much truth in it and I am praying that you may like it a little. If I could only know that it has pleased you I should bless my stars fervantly. I have been in vain trying to buy from our Library a copy of your ""Leaves"" Edt. of 1855   I think it your first & I have somewhere read that you set the type for it yourself   Is it true? Do you think I could obtain a copy of it by addressing some Eastern publisher or book seller? You say you ""don't write many letters"". O, if you would only reply to this within the month! I could then go into the South Seas feeling sure of your friendship and I should try to life the real life there for your sake as well as for my own. Forgive me if I have wearied you: I will be silent and thoughtful in future, but in any case know, dear friend that I am grateful for your indulgence.                  Affectionately yours                 Chas. Warren Stoddard..                 Box 1005. P. O.                 San Francisco Cal. (my address always)  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01691.html," Walt Whitman to the Editors , the Overland Monthly ,","Apr 4, 1870",0.509587923297,"  Attorney General's Office,                     Washington.                     April 4, 1870                                  Editors Overland Monthly:              Would the accompanying piece, ""Passage to India,"" be available to you, to be printed as leading article                  in either the June or July number of the ""Overland""? The price is $200, and I should like 20 copies of the number   I reserve the right to print it in future book. My address is at this office.                               Very respectfully,              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00406.html," Walt Whitman to Byron Sutherland ,","Apr 4, 1870",0.509587923297,"  Attorney General's Office, Washington. April 4, 1870                                  Dear young man:              Your affectionate letter of March 30 has reached me, and has given me much                 comfort   for our acquaintance in this city at the last of the war, & our                 being with each other so closely those two or three days & nights before you                 went away, have left a loving remembrance of you which will never be effaced. I am                 well as usual   still work in this office   still board at the same house                 in M Street   & I suppose hold my own generally about the same as when we                 were together   I suppose you have progressed a good deal & I want to hear                 all about it   everything about you & your fortunes will be                 interesting   & the sight of you, dear friend, & to have you with me                 again, would be more welcome than all. I will not write a long letter this                 time   but send you my love   & charge you to write more regularly in                 future.  Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01448.html," Thomas Dixon to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 9, 1870",0.510267917857,"image 1image 2image 3image 4image 5image 6                                                                15 Sunderland Street                         Sunderland                                          April 9 1870                                  Dear Sir,              I have sent you a small Box of Books carriage Paid to your address in Washington. I                 expect it will leave Liverpool on Wednesday the 13th so I expect you will have it                 very soon after the arrival of this letter. I regret I could not send you some                 Indian Books I had in view when I wrote you some time ago. I mean the Bhagavad                 Gita   and the Vedas. the last is a work at present only published for the                 Scholars and Students it is in [8?] large octavo volumes.    and will not all be published this year.                 However the Collection is a representative one as you will find on looking over the                 list. I have few of them so relating to our                      modren                                       Literature as you will observe they are by men whom I highly esteem though                 I do not endorse or hold by all they teach two of the Books are connected with my                 own thoughts and Studies. Time & Tide and the progress of the Working Classes                 from 1832 to 1868, compiled by two warm advocates of the working Classes. the memoir                 of Bewick is also a work I love and esteem and one that i think will be  read by you with                 pleasure and also delight, as the utterances of a real noble honest soul, free from                 all pretensions of culture or Book-making, a truly representative Man, and lover of                 Nature, and natural Life. it is a Book I would fain see more known here and in                 America, it is so brimful of good sound sense. There is also a Portrait of Dante                 & Milton both photographed by admirers of your works, and reading                      Pamphelets                                       by [illegible] other warm admirers of your Book, and lastly                 there is 2 remarkable Indian                      Pamphelets                                       Jesus Christ Europe & Asia by Chunder Sen, an                      Hindoo                                         and one on Beneficent Government also written by an                      Hindoo                                       Philosopher Also 4 numbers of the Cooperator containing L. Napoleon's remarkable work the                 Extinction of Pauperism to me a very remarkable production despite his none fullfilment of it now                 that he is in power and position   The last I will name is the Dabistan a very                 remarkable Book by a Persian on the Schools of Religion in the East a Book after                 your own heart I think one that will be dear to you indeed, or I am much mistaken in                 your love of Books, interspersed with fine stanzas of oriental Poetry, altogether in                 my opinion a real Book. and then the                      Sacconitala                                       & Indian Drama   the Flowery Scrawl, a Chinese Novel. These few                 fragments I hope will help to lift the Veil of the East to thee.                  Yours Truly                 T. Dixon              P.S. In Emerson's new Book Society and Solitude, the Essay upon Books makes                     references to several oriental Books. I hope that notice of them will promote                     their publication by some Publisher or else some Society will be formed to do                     it. people who are lovers of the Writings of Emerson & Mazzini ought to take                     the matter in hand and do it effectually. then we would possess the necessary                     works for a proper study of Humanity in all ages and in all Countries. P.S. Friends here would like a Portrait of your without your                         Hat.   a Card would do    I got the 2 Newspapers you sent me all safe Small Box of Books as follows, per Suttons Parcel Dispatch. addressed W. Whitman,                     Attorney General's Office, Washington D. C. U. S. America.    Dabistan 3 Vols Cloth    Sacontala 1   cl Time & Tide 1       Mazzini's Duties of Man    Carlyle a Choice of Books. Working Classes 1832. 1868. Memoir of Thomas Bewick Flowery Scrawl Chinese Novel Words of a Believer. Lamenais Christ Europe & Asia Beneficent Government Cooperator with Napoleon on Pauperism Portraits of Dante & Milton What is a Christian J. C. Street   "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02301.html," Bret Harte to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 13, 1870",0.510811913505,"image 1image 2image 3image 4                ROOMS OF The Overland Monthly                                           San Francisco.                      Apl 13th 1870                                  My dear sir,              I fear that the ""Passage to India"" is a poem too long and too abstract for the hasty and material minded readers of the O. M..                  With many thanks, I am                 Your obt svt                 F. Bret Harte Ed. O. M.                                      Mr. Walt Whitman                     Washington D.C.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/col.00002.html," Walt Whitman to Moncure D. Conway ,","Apr 22, 1870",0.512035903713,"  Attorney General's Office, Washington. April 22, 1870.                  Dear Mr. Conway,              I send (in the mail for printed matter,) same time as this, duplicate printed copies                 of a poem I have written, ""Passage to India,"" in which I endeavor to celebrate in my                 own way, the modern engineering masterpieces, the Pacific Railroad & the Suez                 Canal   in fact the great modern material practical energy &                 works   & then make of them as heights & apices whereby to reach freest,                 widest, loftiest spiritual fields. But you will see what I have written. It will                 make from 12 to 14, 15, or 16 ordinary pages. Can I take the liberty of asking you to seek to dispose of the piece, if eligible, to                 some London magazine? It will not be printed here in any magazine   I reserve                 the right to print it in future book. The price, time, selection of magazine, and in                 fact all the points of that sort, I leave absolutely to you    My address remains as before at this office & city. Nothing new or very different                 with my affairs. I remain in good health & spirits.                  With love, as ever,                 Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nar.03604.html," Walt Whitman to Walbridge A. Field ,","May 11, 1870",0.514619883041,"  Brooklyn                     May 11, 1870                                                       Sir:              The hurt on my hand has not healed. Allow me to take permission till Saturday next. I shall try to report at the office on Monday next.                  Respectfully                 Walt Whitman                 By A. H. P.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00292.html," Walt Whitman to William D. O'Connor ,","May 11, 1870",0.514619883041,"  Brooklyn                     May 11, 1870                                  Dear William,              My hand has been pretty bad, but looks more encouraging to-day. I don't think there                 is anything very serious, but it has caused me much suffering, since I have been                 here. If the ""Radical"" has come, send me a copy immediately. Address to No 101 Portland avenue,                 opposite Arsenal. Mother is well as usual. We both send love to you and Nellie. I                 expect to be back next Monday.  Walt Whitman                 By AHP.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01449.html," Thomas Dixon to Walt Whitman ,","May 28, 1870",0.516931864545,"image 1image 2image 3image 4image 5image 6  15 Sunderland Street                     Sunderland, May 28 70                                  Dear Sir              I once more take the liberty of sending you a few lines to enquire if you have                 received the small Box of Books I sent you on the 8th April per Suttons Parcel                 Despatch. I enclose again the list of the contents of the Box. I have been expecting                 a letter from you these 2 weeks, and so thought I had better write you again in case                 they had not reached you safely, because  the longer we delay the report of items                 not arriving safe, the more difficult it becomes to trace where they may have been                 sent to in mistake. I also learn you have written a reply to T. Carlyle's American                 Iliad in a Nutshell. If you possess a Copy of it, I would like to have one, also a                 copy of the original preface to Leaves of Grass. Not now being in possession of the                 original copy of the Poem, I miss the preface from your recent Editions                 much.   In fact I regret very much that you have excluded the preface from your recent Editions, and                 English Readers would no doubt like to see a Copy of your letter to Emerson on                 American Literature, in reply to his letter to you. Copies of Emersons letter I have                 sent to several friends of mine here interested in your Poems. Are you ever in New                 York? I have at present staying there, if not located there for Life, two friends                 from our town. Men that I know would be glad to see you and who would give you some                 details of  English                 Life, Literature, Politics, and [illegible] likewise, and who I should                 be glad to hear had seen you, and also became friends of yours. there is a certain                 natural talent in them both. one of them has written a few Articles for the Tribune                 on Cooperation and Trade's Unions. The new matters here in a Literary way that may                 be of interest to Note you is the successful result of the Publication of D. G.                 Rossetti's Poems got into the second Edition in 14 Days after first Publication, and                 the next is a series of lectures in the Science of Religion by [illegible] appearing in Frasers Mag every month also a great success.                 And last not least the public appearance in London of Chunder Sen the                      Hindoo                                       Theist, who is now greatly sought after by all classes of advanced                 thinkers in London.                  And through his being here some few advanced thinkers in London (people who admire                 your Countryman Theo Parker's Works) are anxious to                      inaugrate                                       some Body of People who shall publicly carry out and advocate these                 teachings amongst us, in fact endeavour to form a Body of Religious People who shall                 truly acknowledge in their daily Life and Needs the fellowship and Brotherhood of                 all Men, and God the Father of all. One God, and one Religion, and that Religion in                 practice each Member trying to do his and her Duty to each other faithfully and                 honestly. see Magazine. Duties of Man, the New Gospel to our Time and peoples. In fact in the small                 Collection you will find all and more then I can write and tell you about of the                 leading ideas and thoughts I sympathize with, and live in hopes of seeing someday                 come to pass amongst us all. and Humanity seems fast moving on to that Noble Epoch,                 despite the changes and groans of some of them   I myself largely sympathize                 with the Quaker teaching No Priesthood, and would fain                 know something of your Mind on this Matter, and also of Hicks teachings whose name I                 see coupled with yours.                  Yours Truly                 Thomas Dixon              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/col.00003.html," Walt Whitman to Moncure D. Conway ,","Jul 21, 1870",0.524275805794,"  Washington, July 21, 1870.                  My dear friend,              I have just received your letter of the 7th inst. I appreciate your kindness in the                 matter of the poem. I                 send herewith a verbatim copy of Emerson's note, as                 requested. Nothing very new or special with me, these days. I am well as usual   am still                 employed in the Attorney General's Office. A new edition of my book will be printed                 this fall, with another small volume in prose. You shall have                 early copies, may-be in sheets. Farewell for the present. I send you my love   Write whenever you can.  Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00294.html," Walt Whitman to William D. O'Connor ,","Aug 2, 1870",0.525907792738,"  Brooklyn                     Aug. 2.                                  Dear friend,              I write a line just to give an account of myself. I am well as usual, & in good spirits.                  My Mother, brother George, & all, are well. I came through finely on the RR. last Wednesday   & found myself received very agreebly just as I crossed Jersey flats, approaching New York,                  by an entire change in the weather   the distressing heat gone   & in its place summer atmosphere,                  of course, but moderate enough   which has continued every day since. I enjoy it all, home here,                  day & night   especially the nights   which are fine.   I hear that Wm Swinton is here, from California. Your name was just mentioned on the editorial page                  of last Saturday's (I believe Saturday's) Tribune. I have seen Mrs. Price, she is ill with asthma.                  Her daughter Emily has had a fine little baby boy, now about a month resident in this mad world   (I write about the baby for Nelly and Jenny)   My sister Martha & the children have migrated from St. Louis                  to St. Paul, (Iowa) for a few weeks. They are as well as usual.  I am quite busy flying around   the printers & stereotypers commence on my immortal work to-morrow   My dear, dear friend, I hope you are well & in good spirits   I send you my love   also to Charles Eldridge,                  if he is there   the package of letters & paper came promptly   & I will heartily thank you to continue                  watching the letters &c. and forwarding them to me in same manner    Please enclose this in your next letter to Nelly   Nelly, my darling, I hope you are having comfortable times,                  & that all goes well   & Jeannie too   I think often about you both   & send you my best love   in which I am joined by my Mother.   Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/duk.00656.html," Walt Whitman to John T. Trowbridge ,","Sep 24, 1870",0.533115735074,"  107 north Portland Ave                     Brooklyn, N. Y.                     Sept. 24.                                  My dear friend,              I am here a while on leave   am in good health as usual   have been engaged in electrotyping a new edition of my book in better form   You sent me word a year or more ago of some Boston publisher, or bookseller, who was willing (or perhaps wished) to sell my book   Who was it?   I should like to have some such man there   to sell the book on commission, & be agent, depositor, &c   He will be under no expense, of course & will only receive the books from me on sale   I wish to put his name in an advertisement list of agents    Please answer forthwith   direct to me here.                  Yours as ever                 Walt Whitman              No objection to a couple of such Boston bookselling places   as agencies.                     Love to the son, dear boy.                  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00295.html," Walt Whitman to William D. O'Connor ,","Oct 10, 1870",0.535291717666,"  107 north Portland av.                     Brooklyn,                     Oct. 10.                                  My dear friend,              I shall return to Washington next Saturday, 15th   William, it would be a favor                 if you would secure me a room to lodge & quarter in   (look at the Dyer                 Hotel   it is a one-horse place, but might answer   or the Union hotel at                 Georgetown)   just needed for temporary purposes, (unless I find it                 sufficiently inviting to make me a ""permanency"")    I do not feel to be very particular   only it would be so much off one's mind to                 have a specific point to make for   Write to me, so that I may get the letter                 Friday, 14th   or else meet me at the depot at 10 Saturday evening, if                 eligible    All goes ""as well as could be expected"" with me   that's the phrase you know in                 parturition cases   & have not I been just delivered   & of                     triplets?   I am hearty in                 health, & good spirits, Mother is well   also George   & in fact the                 whole Whitman family. Have not heard a word from you or Nelly, since your letter   Has Nelly returned                 yet? Where is Charles Eldridge? I write this in my room home, early                 afternoon   Mother & I having had tete-a-tete dinner   so good &                 quiet   & this bright mellow October weather around us   I am now off                 for a couple of hours on the river & bay.  Walt              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00296.html," Walt Whitman to William D. O'Connor ,","Oct 14, 1870",0.535835713314,"  Brooklyn                     Friday afternoon Oct. 14                                                      Dear William O'Connor,              I have just rec'd your letter. To make the matter certain won't you take thirty or forty minutes & go down to the St. Cloud   look at the rooms, & pick out one for me?   positively engaging it   You know what is good as well as I do, (I mean for me)   I shall want a room at least for a few weeks   & perhaps for the winter   & for that season one is not so particular about the location   (But perhaps you have already engaged for me at St. C. a specific room.)                  lovingly                 Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01956.html," John Swinton to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 19, 1870",0.536515707874,"image 1  New York.                     Oct 19 1870                                  Dear Walt                 I delivered the book to Mr. Reid for the ""Tribune""   and had some considerable talk with him about a review article. I was afraid of Ripley but Reid confirmed my impression that Greeley is or has been favorable, and he agreed to speak to Greeley, and see what could be done in the premises.    The conversation was exhaustive   that is to say I exhausted the powers I for the time being possessed   and the upshot was the rather limited result above mentioned. In any event, if the matter goes to Ripley, it will have gone to him by a friendly line. I read the ""Vistas""   not in the morning but at night There are many good and striking ideas, with plenty of opportunity for difference of opinion and criticism.                  Yours,                 J. Swinton  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01815.html," Ellen M. O'Connor to Walt Whitman ,","Nov 20, 1870",0.540867673059,"image 1image 2image 3image 4image 5image 6image 7image 8image 9image 10image 11image 12image 13  Providence. R. I.                         Nov. 20th 1870.                                          Dear Walt                  My very dear friend   It is good to feel so assured of one's love as not to need to express it, & it is very good to know that one's love is never doubted or questioned, & for these reasons it is I am sure that we do not write to each other. I always know that you know that I love you all the time, even though we should never meet again, my feeling could                                            never change, and I am sure that you know it as well as I do. I do flatter myself too, that you care for me,   not as I love you, because you are great and strong, and more sufficient unto yourself than any woman can be, besides you have the great outflow of your pen which saves you from the need of personal love as one feels it who has no such resource. You could not afford to love other than as the Gods love; that is to love every body, but                                                                 no one enough to be made unhappy, or to lose your balance. You know that Hector Tyndale was always preaching that to us, to be like the Gods. But however it is with you   it is very good sometimes for me to try to tell those that are very dear to me how I like them. And ever since I left home I have had it in my heart to write you,   but it has been postponed, waiting for the more fitting time. It is only when I am away from you that I am conscious of how deeply you have influenced my life, my thoughts, my feelings, my views   my self in fact, in every way, you seem to have permeated my whole being. And knowing you as intimately as I do I find myself constantly wondering and thinking how such or such a thing seems to you, what your ideas are in relation to this or that. I find too, that the estimate in which persons hold you is a sort of test of them to me all the time. My                                                                 friend Mrs. Mitchell with whom I was at Nantucket said to me one day, ""I see plainly that if I am to remain in your good graces, I am to come to the knowledge and love of your friend Walt Whitman,"" she said that she could see that I made it a test in some sort. Every where, as usual, I find some who ask me about you, & who want to hear of you. I have enjoyed very much reading the ""Passage to India."" The other I lent as soon as it came and it has                                              not yet been returned. Thank you for both. I shall have to scold you for some portion of the arrangement   but that I will reserve till I see you. I always feel refreshed and stronger for reading your poems, they seem so sane, so sweet, so human and healthy. But more than all your poems, more than all you ever can write, you are to me; yet they were very much to me before I knew you. It is good to have my love for you then rounded by knowing you, and                        finding my feeling and thought about you justified. I have sometimes suffered very deeply, but I feel that I have been dealt very kindly by, and had more than fullest compensation in the great privilege of knowing you, and being permitted to be with you as I have. I hope that the good angels who take care of us will for long, long yet spare us to each other. And you must be very good and come often to see us.                                             You must not neglect the golden opportunity of letting me love you and see you all that is possible. I think that I must have been very good at some time to have deserved such a blessing. Very soon I hope to see you now, very soon. Till then good by. Jeannie sends much love to you, so does my sister Jeannie. My Jeannie has grown to be a tall girl, & is very graceful sometimes in her manner, as you used often to tell me                                                     that she would be. She is quite womanly about some things. She longs to be at home; though she enjoys her cousins. I, too, quite long to be with you all. Soon I shall be (D.V.).                      Good by,                         With love ever                        Your affectionate                     Nelly.                  I came near forgetting to send you a letter which I cut from a Boston paper on purpose to send you. It is the account of the death                                                                             of those persons who were overtaken by the snow storm in the mountains. The diary is to me very touching, the simple manly, unflinching tone of what that dying man wrote is to me very noble, I can't read it once without the tears blinding my eyes. It is such a scene, he alone in that mountain pass with no hope of escape and the snow falling in fearful quantities. It is one of the loneliest pictures that I ever conceived. As I read it I thought of you. Good by again. With love Nelly. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/duk.00136.html, Francis A. Walker to Walt,", 1, 1871",0.546579627363,"image 1image 2  Ninth Census of the United States.                                      Department of the Interior,                     Census Office,                                                                                                   Washington, D. C.,                             , 1871.                                                        Dear Sir:                 I found myself unable to prepare the statement you requested in season for the mail                 of last evening. I find the number of persons, male and female, in the United States and the District                 of Columbia, respectively, between the ages of 5 and 20 (both inclusive) to be as follows:                 The United Statesmales 7,253,306females 7,238,851Total14,512,157District of Columbiamales 20,000females 23,637Total43,637  I would add a calculation as to the number of persons annually entering this class                 (five to twenty) in the United States, but that my friend Mr. Elliott, chief                                                     clerk of the Bureau of Statistics, who is much better qualified than myself for such computations, has promised to make the calculation and to furnish you the results. I have accordingly sent to him the data required.                  Very truly yours                 F A Walker                 Acting Superintendent                                                       Walt Whitman, Esq.                     Department of Justice                               "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nar.03605.html," Walt Whitman to Amos Tappan Akerman ,","Jan 9, 1871",0.547667618659,"  Department of Justice                     Washington. Jan. 9, 1871.                  Hon. A. T. Akerman,                 Attorney General.                 Sir:              I hereby respectfully make application for the office of Pardon Clerk, now vacant in                 the Department of Justice. I have served in the Department under Attorney Generals Speed, Stanbery, Browning, Evarts, Hoar, & yourself   am familiar                 with the general routine of the office (am the oldest in continuous service of any                 of the present clerks)   think I could soon learn the special duties of the                 pardon desk   and hope I should conscientiously seek to perform them, both with                 regard to their great official, and still greater moral obligations. I would refer to Mr. Speed and Mr. Stanbery, Attorneys General, & Mr.                     Ashton, Assistant Attorney General, under whom I have acted as clerk,                 some of them for several years   and to Mr. Pleasants, late Chief Clerk   and if                 agreeable to you, or desirable, would bring written testimonials from them.                  Very respectfully,                 Walt Whitman              Should it not be convenient to grant the foregoing application I respectfully ask                     to be promoted to a fourth-class clerkship, to date from 1st. of February,                         1871.                  Walt Whitman  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01866.html," John M. Rogers to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 27, 1871",0.554331565347,image 1image 2image 3image 4image 5  Feb 27th 1871                                  Dear Father              I receive your letter on Saturday and was glad to hear from you and that you are well and enjoying you self I am as well as ever but I feel very uneasy at times because I am doing nothing I have not done any thing scince Jan 1st every thing is very dull here at presant The weather is warm and pleasant here for this time of the                                    year We did not have a very great time on Washington birth day here a reg. or two of Soldiers turned out in a parade was all that I see in this great City I should like very much to come to Washinton and see you but as long as I know that you are well and enjoying your self I will try to content my self It rained all day here yesterday and I did not go out any whare I feel very greatful to you that you should take so much interist in me it makes                                                    me think of my father all though if we think of our dear heavenly Fathe he will guide and direct us in all our ways and we ought to be very thankful to him for our good health he is such a good Father to us so good by for the presant my Dear good Father                  from your affecinate Son                 John M Rogers              P.S. I would come out there on a visit but can not aford it just now so good by Jonny 
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01290.html," John Lillie , for Francis P. Church , to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 10, 1871",0.560043519652,"image 1image 2image 3image 4                                           EDITORIAL OFFICE OF THE GALAXY,                          40 PARK ROW, New York.                                                                               10 April, 1871                                  Dear Sir:              Your poem entitled ""O, Star of France"" will be published in the June number of The Galaxy.                  Respectfully                 John Lillie                     for F. P. Church              Mr Whitman "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/pml.00030.html," Walt Whitman to Abby H. Price ,","Apr 21, 1871",0.561539507684,"  Washington                     April 21, 1871.                                                      Dear Abby,              I have seen Major Saxton, & handed him your note, & the accompanying paper   he said he knew the 4th Auditor personally, & would see him about it, & would probably write to you within three or four days. So Arthur is home, & you are all well   what with the baby & all you women   what jolly times you must have   I wish I could just drop in and take part in them    With me, nothing very new or special   I am well & hearty   feel first-rate the greater part of the time   and as to streaks of the other kind of feeling, I am thankful they are so few   for you know I am getting to be an old fellow   though my temperament for buoyancy & fun I believe increases instead of diminishes   I shall take my vacation considerably earlier than usual, this summer   so it wont be long before I shall see you all.                  Love to all   not forgetting the baby.                 Walt.              Abby, Willard Saxton's address is 1st Comptroler's office Treasury Dep't. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01693.html," Walt Whitman to Cora L. V. Tappan ,","May 5, 1871",0.563443492452,"  Washington, D. C.,                     May 5, 1871.                                  My Dear Madam and Friend:              I was expecting to visit New York early this month, and intended to call and thank you for your beautiful                  and valued gift of Hesperia   but finding I shall not go now for two or three weeks, I write to acknowledge the receipt of the poem and to say that when I come on, I shall personally call and pay my respects.  Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/yal.00105.html," Walt Whitman to Anne Charlotte Lynch Botta ,","May 13, 1871",0.564531483748,"  Department of Justice                     Washington.                     May 13, 1871.                                  Mrs. Botta,                 My dear Madam,              In answer to your request of some days since, I send you the MS. of a small piece I have written, to be printed forthwith in the June Galaxy. According to your request, I also send a picture.  Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01707.html," Walt Whitman to W. C. and F. P. Church ,","May 19, 1871",0.56534747722,"  Department of Justice           Washington.           May 19, 1871                    Messrs. Church,           My friends,        If convenient, please remit to me, here, a check for $25 in pay for ""O Star of France.""          Yours truly         Walt Whitman        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/tex.00235.html," Walt Whitman to Anne Charlotte Lynch Botta ,","Jun 6, 1871",0.567795457636,"  Department of Justice                     Washington June 6, 1871.                                  Mrs. Botta:                 My dear Madam:              I sent you by mail about three weeks ago, (in compliance with your request of April 13,) the MS. of one of my poems, ""O Star of France""   also a photographic portrait. Please let me know whether they arrived safely.                  With greatest respect.                 Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00297.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Jun 8, 1871",0.56806745546,"  Washington,                     June 8, 1871.                               I have received your kind note, dear, dear friend   I shall be with you all again next Sunday evening without fail, soon after 7.              Nelly, I have procured from New York one of the Brady Photos, (the one with the hand up, which you liked) and am having it framed, to present to you. Understand that, like the new year's Bible, the Photo is a gift, with my best love, to you & William   to pass on to dear Jeannie.  Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00298.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Jun 29, 1871",0.570923432613,"  107 north Portland av.                     Brooklyn, June 29.                                  Dear Nelly,              I will just write you a line to let you know I am here in Brooklyn, & well &                 hearty. Mother is well as usual, & sends love to you & William, & to                 Jeannie. My sister Martha at St. Louis was not in good health at last accounts. Helen Price was here & spent part of the day   She is looking                 finely   they are all as usual   it was John                     Arnold that died   he was a complete                 wreck   death was a boon & relief in the case    I have heard from Mrs. Howells   I have seen Beulah, she is a fine young woman, a handsome                 healthy blonde   she is at the fine establishment of Wilcox & Gibbs, on Broadway   her sister Lou is married   I shall soon see Mrs.                 Howells, & then I will tell you further   Beulah asked much about you &                 William, and Jeannie    Nothing special with me or my affairs. As it turns out, my death by railroad smash                 permeated the lower orders, (I suppose at second & third hand) & the rectification in many cases never reached them. So I hardly                 stir out in New York, but what I am called upon to certify, &c.    I am daily on the water here   it is inspiriting, & surpassingly                 beautiful   Every fine day the bay swarms with yachts, large &                 small   they are literally in scores   I never tire of looking on                 them   All the young fellows yacht here    Dear William, how are you? and dear Charles Eldridge, how are you? My true love to                 you both   Jeannie, my darling, a kiss for you   good bye, Nelly                 dear     Walt              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00410.html," Alfred , Lord Tennyson to Walt Whitman ,","Jul 12, 1871",0.572691418469,"  Aldworth, Blackdown, Haslemere, Surrey, England, July 12, 1871.                  My dear Sir:              Mr. Cyril Flower wrote to me some time ago to inform me that he had brought your                 books with him from America, a gift from you, and that they were lying in my London                 chambers; Whereupon I wrote back to him, begging him to bring them himself to me at                 my country house, and I have been accordingly, always expecting to see him, but he                 never came, being detained by law business in town. I have now just called at my                 London lodgings, and found them on the table. I had previously met with several of                 your works and read them with interest and had made up my mind that you had a large                 and lovable nature. I discovered great ""go"" in your writings and am not surprised at                 the hold they have taken on your fellow country men. Wishing you all success and prosperity, and with all thanks for your kind gift which I should have acknowledged earlier, had I received it sooner, I remain                  Ever yours, very truly,                 A Tennyson              I trust that if you visit England, you will grant me the pleasure of receiving                     and entertaining you under my own roof. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00299.html," Walt Whitman to William D. O'Connor ,","Jul 14, 1871",0.572963416293,"                  Brooklyn,                     107 North Portland av.                                                         July 14.                                  Dear friend,              There is nothing special to write about, yet I will send you a line. I wrote to Nelly between two & three weeks ago   with a line to you and Charles Eldridge   which I suppose came all right at the time. I have been having a comfortable time, absolutely doing nothing, sleeping a good deal, eating & drinking what suits me, and going out a few hours a day, a good part of the time on the water. Mother has had an attack of illness, somewhat severe, the last few days   & I have been sort of nurse & doctor   (as none of my sisters are home at present)   result is that Mother is very much better this morning    John Burroughs has called on me   looking well. I must tell you that the Westminster for July has for the 2d article of the number a long article of 33 or 4 pages, headed                                                                                            ""The Poetry of Democracy: Walt Whitman""                                                                                and capped with the names of the three last issued books   rather quiet in tone, but essentially very favorable & appreciative   undertakes to define the character of democratic art & poetic literature, as discriminated from aristocratic   quotes freely from all my books   will please you, I think. Wednesday's brush in N. Y. you have seen in the papers   in five sixths of the city, it was curiously almost unfelt, every thing went on the same   30 or 40 killed and a hundred wounded   yet it all falls very languidly on our people   we have supped full of horror of late years   the Policemen looked & behaved splendidly   I have been looking on them & been with them much, & am refreshed by their presence   it is something new   in some respects they afford the most encouraging sign I have got   brown, bearded, worn, resolute, American-looking men, dusty & sweaty   looked like veterans   the stock here even in these cities is in the main magnificent   the heads either shysters, villains or impotents   Love to Nelly, Charles Eldridge & Jeannie     Walt              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/uva.00354.html," Walt Whitman to an Unidentified Correspondent ,","Jul 19, 1871",0.573643410853,"  Brooklyn                     107 north Portland av.                     July 19.                                  My dear sir,              You can get any or all my Books at J. S. Redfield, 140 Fulton street, upstairs, N. Y.  Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01486.html," Edward Dowden to Walt Whitman ,","Jul 23, 1871",0.574187406501,"image 1image 2image 3image 4image 5image 6  Montenotte                     Cork, Ireland                     July 23 1871                                  My dear Sir,              I wished to send you a copy of the July No of the Westminster Review containing an                 article by me which attempts a study of one side of your work in literature. I wrote                 to Mr. W. M. Rossetti to enquire for your address & he tells me that he has                 already forwarded a copy to you. But I will not be defrauded by Mr. Rossetti of the                 pleasure I had promised                                                     myself & therefore you must accept a second copy of the Review (which I post                 with this letter) & do what you like with it. I ought to say that the article expresses very partially the impression which your                 writings have made on me. It keeps, as is obvious, at a single point of view &                 regards only what becomes visible from that point. But also I wrote more cooly than I                 feel because I wanted those, who being ignorant of your writings are perhaps                 prejudiced against them, to say ""Here is a cool, judicious, impartial                                                     critic who finds a                 great deal in Whitman   perhaps, after all, we are mistaken."" Perhaps this will                 be unsatisfactory to you, & you would prefer that your critic should let the                 full force of your writings appear in his criticism, & attract those who are to                 be attracted, & repel those who are to be repelled, & you may value the                 power of repulsion as well as that of attraction. But so many persons capable of                 loving your work, by some mischance or miscarriage or by some ignorance or removable                 error fail in their approach to you, or do not approach at all.                                                                      that I think I am justified in my attempt. You have many readers in Ireland, & those who read do not feel a qualified                 delight in your poems   do not love them by degree, but with an absolute, a                 personal love. We none of us question that yours is the clearest, & sweetest,                 & fullest American voice. We grant as true all that you claim for yourself. And                 you gain steadily among us new readers & lovers. If you care at all for what I have written it would certainly be a pleasure to hear                 this from yourself. If you do not care for it you will know                                    that I wished to do better than I                 did. My fixed residence is 50 Wellington Road,  Dublin, Ireland. My work there is that of Professor of English Literature in the University of Dublin.                 We have lately had a good public lecture in Dublin from a Fellow of Trinity College                 on your poems   R. Y. Tyrrell a man who knows Greek poetry very well, & who                 finds it does not interfere with his regard for yours. If the lecture should at any                 time be published                                                    I shall send you a copy.                  I am,                 dear Sir,                 Very truly yours                 Edward Dowden.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00282.html," Walt Whitman to William D. O'Connor ,","Jul 26, 1871",0.574595403237,"  Brooklyn                     Wednesday forenoon, July 26.                                  Dear William O'Connor,              I take it by the enclosed from Rossetti that he has sent me the Westminster by mail to Washington, & that it is now there, probably in the A. G. office. You go down & see, & get it to read. (May be in p. o.) Mother's health is about reëstablished if nothing unfavorable occurs. I shall return to Washington early next week. I start this afternoon for New Haven for one day only   an emergency   an artist friend of mine is very low there with consumption   is in fact dying   & has expressed the most earnest wish to see me   We have been, & are, having a cold easterly rain storm here   I enclose, on loan, the last two photos of my most sweetly philosophic & fascinating self   (for you to gaze upon till I return)    The Swinburne Hilliard article has been copied in the World, Home Journal, &c. &c. Not a word of the Westminster article   The ungodly, (sorely tried,) will of course endeavor to ignore it, & leave it entirely unmentioned & uncommented on, if possible   but that will not be possible   It is a powerful essay   I have been reading it over carefully a second time   It strikes the true chords   even the name ""The Poetry of Democracy"" &c   is it not pregnant? from your loving old  Walt              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01452.html," Thomas Dixon to Walt Whitman ,","Jul 27, 1871",0.574731402149,"image 1image 2image 3image 4image 5image 6                                                15. SUNDERLAND STREET.                                                               Sunderland,                          July 27 1871                                  Dear Sir              I see from the Westminster Review of our Country, that you have issued a new Edition                 of your Poems. I want to know if the new Poems are to be purchased separate. I would                 fain make my own Copy complete to the present times, so would thank you for a line                 giving me some particulars respecting the new Poems so that I may know how to order                 them from by Bookseller.    I note that in them you have been in New York lately and that its ways and people                 don't please you. [even?]                 these changes in people are precisely of that character that I thought you had                 already expected such and in fact are of the greatest feature in your Poems to me,                 was your acknowledgement of the existence of such peoples, and also your indication                 how such peoples originated in such States as your States. Now the question to me is                 this. Can these people help themselves being that which they are? Does not the                 artificial Life in all large Towns create and breed such people? You who have seen                 & may write almost all People,  and have watched the growth of these                 changes seems to consider all such changes as inevitable, and that also is marked                 too in your Poems. So I pray you someday give us a clear estimate on this question                 of Life. What Life is the best for People? A Town one with every so called comfort,                 and Art and Luxury? But why need I ask when I see now before my minds eye several                 passages in your Poems that answer all the questions and that too in an emphatic                 way. yet I like yourself still keep putting the Questions to all I Know and to                 myself whenever I wander in the Streets or mix with those that Farm the lands or                 till There. Well over and above all I often have been wondering how the Books I sent                 you turned  out as you                 read them, how did the curious Book on Indian Philosophy? answer the yearning you                 seem to have to know something about them, how did the Life of Bewich or Carlyle                 please you, to it make you feel an interest in these men? How did the Indian Theists                 utterance with its mixture of Western ideas meet your own thoughts on his Themes.                 How did Mazzinis small but yet great Book tally with your own teachings of your own                 people. There was so much representative ideas in these small Books that I yearn to                 know how it all appeared to you, and if it was to you the truth it seems to have                 been to me in thus sending to you, as my feeling was they would be as dear to you                 also. Since last I wrote you again as war and even Revolution once more been tried in                 France in the attempt to found a new Social State the Dream it seems to me of                 Humanity in all Ages. There is not a Literature I have read that some such a Social                 State was not foreshadowed by some of its great Men in their writings. And also how                 sorrowful to write after all the bloodshed this noble idea is still a Dream, except                 in as far as your Land proves it not so, by the few noble and successful                 associations that seems to grow and flourish in same portions of your great                 Country                                    proving                 the idea is no dream but a veritable Truth awaiting the full growth of Humanity in                 all its true fulness for the fulfillment of                 such a truly noble form of Social Life for all Peoples!!   true comrades men                 and women such as you sing in your Poems. there again you see I find fresh spirit for my dream in your own work and that our latest                 utterance of hope for us in Human Life. I know that all these months of horror will                 have been often pondered over so wonder if in these ponderings speech or written                 thought has been made thereon.                  Yours Thankfully,                 Thos. Dixon  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/yal.00397.html," Walt Whitman to William Michael Rossetti ,","Jul 28, 1871",0.574867401061,"  Brooklyn N. Y.                     July 28 1871.                                  W. M. Rossetti:                 Dear Sir & friend;              Please accept these copies of my latest edition. Please have conveyed to the lady the set enclosed for her. John Burroughs                 sends second edition of his ""Notes""   Your letter of 8th July has                 reached me   I hope to write you more fully & answer it from Washington                 city   My address is still there   (& always, always glad to hear from                 you, my friend.) I am still blest with the greatest health, & have been enjoying this fine summer                 here exceedingly. My ""Leaves of Grass"" I consider                 substantially finished, as in the copies I send you. To                  ""Democratic Vistas"" it is my plan to add much, if I live. I have read                 carefully the article in the Westminster If you learn for certain who wrote it, I                 should be glad to know   It is a profound & eloquent essay   & I am                 proud to be the subject of it   I have received much comfort from your                 country   here little but refusal or coldness. I conclude by sending best respects & love. Indeed, my friend, I wish to hear                 from you oftener.               Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01695.html," Walt Whitman to the Committee on Invitations , American Institute ,","Aug 5, 1871",0.575955392357,"  Department of Justice                     Washington.                     Aug 5, 1871                                  Messrs. George Payton, Chas. E. Burd, and James B. Young, Committee on                         Invitations.                 Dear Sirs:              I have read your letter of 1st inst. containing invitation to deliver an appropriate                 original poem at the opening of the 40th Annual Exhibition of the American                 Institute, Sept. 7, & stating terms, &c. I accept with pleasure, & shall                 be ready without fail to deliver the poem at time specified. Address me here, if any thing further. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01697.html," Anne Gilchrist to Walt Whitman ,","Sep 1, 1871",0.579627362981,"  September                         3                                  Dear Friend              At last the beloved books have reached my hand   yet now I have them, my heart is so rent with anguish, my eyes                 so blinded, I cannot read in them. I try again and again but too great waves come                 swaying up & suffocate me. I will struggle to tell you my story. It seems to me                 a death struggle. When I was eighteen I met a lad of nineteen who                 loved me then, and always for the remainder of his life. After we had known each                 other about a year he asked me to be his wife. But I said that I liked him well as                 my friend but could not love him as a wife should love & felt deeply convinced I                 never should. He was not turned aside, but went on just the same as if that                 conversation had never passed. After a year he asked me again, and I, deeply moved                 by & grateful for his true steady love, and so sorry for him, said yes. But next                 day, terrified at what I had done & painfully conscious of the dreary absence                 from my heart of any faintest gleam of true tender wifely love, said no                 again.                 This too he bore without desisting & at the end of some months once more asked                 me with passionate entreaties. Then, dear friend, I prayed very earnestly, and it                 seemed to me that I should continue to mar & thwart his life, so was not right                 if he was content to accept what I could give. I knew I could lead a good and                 wholesome life beside him. His aims were noble, his heart a deep beautiful true                 Poet's heart, but he had not the Poet's great brain. His path was a very arduous one                 and I knew I could smooth it for him   cheer him along it. It seemed to me God's                 will that I should marry him. So I told him the whole truth and he said he would                 rather have me on those terms than not have me at all. He said to me many times, Ah,                 Annie, it is not you who are so loved that is rich, it is I who so love. And I knew                 this was true, felt as if my nature were poor & barren beside his. But it was                 not so, it was only slumbering   undeveloped. For, dear friend, my Soul was so                 passionately aspiring   it so thirsted & pined for light it had not power to                 reach alone & he could not help me on my way. And a woman is so made that she                 cannot give the tender passionate devotion of her whole nature save to the greater                 conquering soul stronger in its powers though not in its aspirations than her own,                 that can lead her forever & forever up and on. It is for her soul exactly as it                 is for her body. The strong divine soul of the man embracing hers with passionate                 love   so alone the precious germs within her soul can be quickened into life.                 And the time will come when men will understand that a woman's soul is as dear and                 needful to his & as different from his as her body to his body. This was what                 happened to me when I had read for a few days, nay hours, in your books. It was the                 divine soul embracing mine. I never before dreamed what love meant: nor what life                 meant. Never was alive before. No words but those of ""new birth"" can hint the                 meaning of what then happened to me. The first few months of my marriage were dark & gloomy to me within, and                 sometimes I had misgivings whether I had judged aright, but when I knew there was a                 dear baby coming my heart grew lighter, and when it was born, such a superb                 child   all glooms & fear forever vanished. I knew it was God's seal to the                 marriage, and my heart was full of gratitude and joy. It was a happy and a good life                 we led together for ten short years, he ever tender and affectionate to                 me   loving his children so, working earnestly in the wholesome bracing                 atmosphere of poverty   for it was but just possible with the most strenuous                 frugality & industry to pay our way. I learned to cook & to turn my hand to                 all household occupations, found it bracing, healthful, cheerful. Now I think it                 more even now that I understand the divineness & sacredness of the Body. I think                 there is no more beautiful task for a woman than ministering all ways to the health                 & comfort & enjoyment of the dear bodies of those she loves: no material                 that will work sweeter & more beautifully into that making of a perfect poem of                 a man's life which is her true vocation. In 1861 my children took scarlet fever badly: I thought I should have lost my dear                 oldest girl. Then my husband took it   and in five days it carried him from me.                 I think, dear friend, my sorrow was far more bitter though not so deep as that of a                 loving tender wife. As I stood by him in the coffin I felt such remorse I had not,                 could not be more tender to him   such a conviction that if I had loved him as                 he deserved to be loved he would not have been taken from us. To the last my soul                 dwelt apart & unmated & his soul dwelt apart                 unmated.                 I do not fear the look of his dear silent eyes. I do not think he would even be                 grieved with me now. My youngest was then a baby. I have had much sweet tranquil                 happiness, much strenuous work & endeavour raising my darlings. In May 1869 came the voice over the Atlantic to me. O the voice of my Mate: it must                 be so   my love rises up out of the very depths of the grief & tramples upon                 despair. I can wait   any time, a lifetime, many lifetimes   I can suffer,                 I can dare, I can learn, grow, toil, but nothing in life or death can tear out of my                 heart the passionate belief that one day I shall hear that voice say to me ""My Mate.                 The one I so much want. Bride, Wife, indissoluble eternal!"" It is not happiness I                 plead with God for   it is the very life of my Soul, my love is its life. Dear                 Walt. It is a sweet & precious thing this love   it clings so close, so                 close to the Soul and Body, all so tenderly dear, so beautiful, so sacred; it yearns                 with such passion to soothe and comfort & fill thee with sweet tender joy; it                 aspires as grandly, as gloriously as thy own soul, strong to soar, soft & tender                 to nestle and caress. If God were to say to me   see   ""he that you love you                 shall not be given to in this life   he is going to set sail on the unknown                 sea   will you go with him   "" never yet has bride sprung into her husbands                 arms with the joy I would take thy hand & spring from the shore. Understand aright, dear love, the reason of my silence. I was obeying the voice of                 conscience. I thought I was to wait. For it is the instinct of a womans nature to                 wait to be sought   not to seek. And when that May & June I was longing so                 inexpressibly to write I resolutely restrained myself, believing if I were only                 patient the right opening would occur. And so it did through Rossetti. And when he,                 liking what I said, suggested my printing something, it met and enabled me to carry                 into execution what I was brooding over. For I had and still have a strong                 conviction that it was necessary for a woman to speak   that finally and                 decisively only a woman can judge a man, only a man a woman, on the subject of their                 relations. What is blameless, what is good in its effect on her, is good   however it may have seemed to men. She is the test. And I                 never for a moment feared any hard words against myself because I know these things                 are not judged by the intellect but by the unerring instincts of the soul. I knew                 any man could not but feel that it would be a happy and ennobling thing for him that                 his wife should think & feel as I do on that subject   knew that what had                 filled me with such great & beautiful thoughts towards men in that writing could                 not fail to give them good & happy thoughts towards women in the reading. The                 cause of my consenting to Rossetti's urgent wish that I should not put my name (he                 so kindly solicitous yet not altogether understanding me & it aright) was that I                 did not rightly understand how it might be with my dear Boy if it came before                     him. I thought perhaps he was not old enough to judge                 and understand me aright: nor young enough to let it altogether alone. But it has                 been very bitter & hateful to me this not standing to what I have said as it                 were, with my own personality, better because of my utter love and faithfulness to                 the cause & longing to stand openly & proudly in the ranks of its friends;                 & for the lower reason that my nature is proud & as defiant as thine own and                 immeasurably disdains any faintest appearance of being afraid of what I had done. And, my darling, above all because I love thee so tenderly that if hateful words had                 been spoken against me I could have taken joy in it for thy dear sake. There never                 yet was the woman who loved that would not joyfully bare her breast to wrest the                 blows aimed at her beloved. I know not what fiend made me write those meaningless words in my letter, ""it is                 pleasantest to me"" &c., but it was not fear or faithlessness   & it is                 not pleasantest but hateful to me. Now let me come to beautiful joyous things again.                 O dear Walt, did you not feel in every word the breath of a woman's love? did you                 not see as through a transparent veil a soul all radiant and trembling with love,                 stretching out its arms towards you? I was so sure you would speak, would send me                 some sign: that I was to wait   wait. So I fed my heart with sweet hopes:                 strengthened it with looking into the eyes of thy picture. O surely in the ineffable                 tenderness of thy look speaks the yearning of thy man-soul toward my woman-soul? But                 now I will wait no longer. A higher instinct dominates that other, the instinct for                 perfect truth. I would if I could lay every thought and action and feeling of my                 whole life open to thee as it lies to the eye of God. But that cannot be all at                 once. O come. Come, my darling: look into these eyes and see the loving ardent                 aspiring soul in them   easily, easily will you learn to love all the rest of me                 for the sake of that and take me to your breast for ever and ever. Out of its great                 anguish my love has risen stronger, more triumphant than ever: it cannot doubt,                 cannot fear, is strong, divine, immortal, sure of its fruition this side the grave                 or the other. ""O agonistic throes,"" tender, passionate yearnings, pinings,                 triumphant joys, sweet dreams   I too know you all. But, dear love, the sinews                 of a womans outer heart are not twisted so strong as a mans: but the heart within is                 strong & great & loving. So the strain is very terrible. O heart of flesh,                 hold on yet a few years to the great heart within thee if it may be. But if not all                 is assured, all is safe. This time last year when I seemed dying I could have no secrets between me & my                 dear children. I told them of my love: told them all they could rightly understand,                 and laid upon them my earnest injunction that as soon as my mother's life no longer                 held them here, they should go fearlessly to America, as I should have planted them                 down there   Land of Promise, my Canaan, to which my soul sings ""Arise, Shine,                 for thy light is come & the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee."" After the 29th of this month I shall be in my own home, dear friend   it is at                 Brookbank, Haslemere, Surrey. Haslemere is on the main line between Portsmouth &                 London.                  Good bye, dear Walt,                 Anne Gilchrist              Sept. 6. The new portrait also is a sweet joy & comfort to my longing, pining heart                     & eyes. How have I brooded & brooded with thankfulness on that one word                     in thy letter ""the comfort it has been to me to get her words,"" for always day & night these two years has hovered on                     my lips & in my heart the one prayer: dear God, let me comfort him! Let me                     comfort thee with my whole being, dear love. I feel much better & stronger                     now. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01489.html," Edward Dowden to Walt Whitman ,","Sep 5, 1871",0.580171358629,"image 1image 2image 3image 4  8 Montenotte                     Cork, Ireland,                     Sept. 5, 1871                                  My dear Sir,              It was very kind of you to send me the photographs of yourself, which I value much. I                 had previously received one, carte de visite size, from Mr. Rossetti, in which you                 wear your hat. These I like better, though I liked that. I will name some of your friends on this side of the water whom I know myself. I wish                 I could make it appear how various these natures are which have come into relation                 with you. There is my brother (a clergyman) who finds his truth halved between John                 H. Newman (of Oxford celebrity) & you. There is Todhunter, (a doctor                                                   a man of science, & a mystic,   a Quaker), he has had a wish to write on the subject of your                 poems, & may perhaps accomplish it. There is O'Grady (a barrister, an ardent                 nature, much interested in social & political principles), he overflows with two                 authors, Carlyle & yourself. There is Cross (a clergyman, the most sterling                 piece of manhood I know) he has I daresay taken you in more thoroughly than any of                 us, in proportion to his own soundness & integrity of nature. There is Tyrell                 whom I named before (a fellow of Trinity College, an excellent Greek scholar). There                 is a woman of most fine character & powerful intellect, Miss West, (daughter of                 the Dean of St. Patrick's, Dublin). She, I hope, will at some time write &                 publish the impression your writings have made upon her, as she is at present about                 to do in the case of Robert Browning. Then I know                                                     three painters in London, all men of decided genius, who care very much for all you do   Yeats, Ellis                 (who has, I believe, in M.S. some study of your poems, which at some time may come to be                 printed)   & Nettleship whom Rossetti knows, & who has published a book                 on R. Browning. I have been told that Nettleship at one time when ""Leaves of Grass""                 was out of print & scarce, parted with his last guinea or two to buy a copy. All I have named, (& I myself may be included) are young, & may, I think, be                 fairly taken to represent ideas in literature which are becoming, or which will                 become, dominant. One think strikes me about every one who cares for what you write   while your                 attraction is                                                                     most absolute, & the impression you make as powerful as that of any teacher or vates, you do not rob the mind of its independence, or divert it                 from its true direction,   you make no slaves, however many lovers.                                Very truly yours                 Edward Dowden              Should you care to carry out a half intention you had of writing to me direct to                      50, Wellington Road, Dublin. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01700.html," Walt Whitman to Edward Dowden ,","Sep 19, 1871",0.582075343397,"  Washington, U. S.                     Sept. 19, 1871.                                  My Dear Mr. Dowden:              The gentleman who will hand you this is John Burroughs, a very valued friend of mine, who is about to start for Europe, and thinks of visiting Dublin, & making a call on you. I have rec'd your letter of Sept. 5, & hope to write you further   Believe me I deeply appreciate all you send me     Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01960.html," John Addington Symonds to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 7, 1871",0.584523323813,"image 1image 2image 3image 4image 5                  Oct  � 7. 1871.                 My dear Sir,              When a man has ventured to dedicate his work to another without authority or permission, I think that he is bound to make confession of the liberty he has taken. This must be my excuse for sending to you the crude poem in wh. you may perchance detect some echo, faint & feeble, of your Calamus.   As I have put pen to paper I cannot refrain from saying that since the time when I first took up Leaves of Grass in a friend's rooms at Trinity College Cambridge six                                     years ago till now, your poems have been my constant companions. I have read them in Italy by the shores of the Mediterranean, under pine trees or caverns washed by the sea   & in Switzerland among the alpine pastures & beside the glaciers. At home I have found in them pure air & health   the free breath of the world   when often cramped by illness & the cares of life. What one man can do                                      by communicating to those he loves the treasure he has found, I have done among my friends. I say this in order that I may, as simply as may be, tell you how much I owe to you. He who makes the words of a man his spiritual food for years is greatly that man's debtor. As for the poem I send you   it is of course implicit already in your Calamus, especially in ""Scented herbage of my breast.""                                                     I have but set to an old tune the new divine song   : for you know that on this side of the Atlantic at least people most readily listen to old tunes. I fear greatly I have marred the purity & beauty of your thought by my bad singing.   I am an Englishman, married, with 3 children, & am aged 30.    Answer to this I scarcely expect, as I certainly do not deserve it. The poem I send is due for reasons already set forth. It is a printer's proof at present & no more.                  I am your grateful and attached                 John Addington Symonds              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01490.html," Edward Dowden to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 15, 1871",0.585611315109,"image 1image 2image 3image 4  50 Wellington Road                     Dublin,                     Oct 15, 1871                 My dear Sir,              I ought before now to have thanked you for the poem ""After all, not to create only"",                 which I read with very great interest & pleasure. The evening I came to Dublin a                 friend   Todhunter   offered to lend me a copy cut out of a New York                 newspaper, not knowing I had seen it. Much work lying before me on my return here                 prevented me from thanking you sooner.  Probably the Hon. Roden Noel, almost certainly Mr Rossetti has sent you a copy of                 this month's ""Dark Blue""   nevertheless on the chance of your not having seen it                 I post a copy. I think you can hardly fail to be pleased with the article upon your poems. The essay in the same number                                                                    upon Robert Browning is by Miss West, whom I named to you as one who knew & loved what you have                 written. I also send you the first morsel of O'Grady's writing (I named him to you also),                 which has got into print   ""Apollo"". You will see, I think, that he springs from                 Carlyle on one side, & from you on the other, & is an aristocratic-democrat                 or democratic aristocrat. I do not wholly like ""Apollo"". I think he has made Apollo                 (& his English fellow) too idle, a god of glorious play merely, whereas he                 really does each day a good day's joyous work, illuminating the world, & slaying                 Python, & doctoring sick folk in a magnificent                                                                     manner. We have heard here that Mr. Tennyson has asked you to come to him. I hope you will                 come. And if to England   to Ireland too. And if to Ireland, would you not come                 to this house if you had not pleasanter quarters? Your welcome, at least, would be                 very sincere.                  Yours very truly                 Edward Dowden.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/siu.00001.html," Walt Whitman to an Unidentified Correspondent ,","Oct 17, 1871",0.585883312933,"image 1image 2image 3image 4  Washington,                     Oct. 17, 1871.                                  Dear Sir:              In answer to your letter of September 5, (I beg pardon for not replying to it before,) I have to inform you that some time ago Dion Thomas, bookseller, 2d story, Fulton st. north side, about midway bet. Nassau and Broadway, had some copies of 1st edition Leaves of Grass   but whether he still has them to sell I cannot say    I can procure you of the artist a good photograph,   the price is $1.  Walt Whitman.  The last edition of my poems complete I publish & sell myself. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00415.html," Walt Whitman to William C. Church and Francis P. Church ,","Nov 2, 1871",0.588059295526,"  Washington,                     Nov. 2, 187                                   I offer the enclosed Poem ""The Mystic Trumpeter"" for the January number, 1872, of Galaxy. The price is $40. . . .  Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/upa.00011.html," Walt Whitman to Anne Gilchrist ,","Nov 3, 1871",0.588195294438,"  Washington City, U. S.                     November 3, 1871.                  Dear friend,              I have been waiting quite a long while for time & the right mood to answer your                     letter in a spirit as serious as its own, & in the                 same unmitigated trust & affection. But more daily work than ever has fallen                 upon me to do the current season, & though I am well & contented, my best                 moods seem to shun me. I wished to give to it a day, a sort of Sabbath or holy day                 apart to itself, under serene & propitious influences   confident that I                 could then write you a letter which would do you good, & me too. But I must at                 least show, without further delay, that I am not insensible to your love. I too send                 you my love. And do you feel no disappointment because I now write but briefly. My                 book is my best letter, my response, my truest explanation of all. In it I have put                 my body & spirit. You understand this better & fuller & clearer than any                 one else. And I too fully & clearly understand the loving & womanly letter                 it has evoked. Enough that there surely exists between us so beautiful &                 delicate a relation, accepted by both of us with joy.               Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01701.html," Anne Gilchrist to Walt Whitman ,","Nov 27, 1871",0.591459268326,"  Dear Friend              Your long waited for letter brought me both joy & pain; but the pain was not of                 your giving. I gather from it that a long letter which I wrote you Sept. 6th after I had received the precious packet, a letter in which I opened all my                 heart to you, never reached your hands: nor yet a shorter one which, tortured by                 anxiety & suspense about its predecessor, I wrote Oct. 15, it, too, written out of                 such stress & intensity of painful emotion as wrenches from us inmost truth: I                 cannot face the thought of these words of uttermost trust & love having fallen                 into other hands. Can both be simply lost? Could any man suffer a base curiosity, to                 make him so meanly treacherously cruel? It seems to cut and then burn me.  I was not disappointed at the shortness of your letter & I do not ask nor even                 wish you to write save when you are inwardly impelled & desirous of doing so. I                 only want leave and security to write freely to you. Your book does indeed say                 all   book that is not a book but, for the first time, a man complete, godlike,                 august, standing revealed the only way possible, through the garment of speech. Do                 you know, dear Friend, what it means for a woman, what it means for me to understand                 these poems. It means for her whole nature to be then first kindled; quickened into                 life through such love, such sympathy, such resistless attraction, that thenceforth                 she cannot choose but live & die striving to become worthy to share this divine                 mans life   to be his dear companion, closer, nearer, dearer than any man can                 be   for ever so. Her soul stakes all on this. It is the meaning, the                 fulfilment, the only perfect developement & consummation of her nature   of                 her passionate, high, immortal aspirations   her Soul to mate with his for ever                 & ever. O I know the terms are obdurate   I know hard to attain to this                 greatness, the grandest lot ever aspired to by woman. I know too my own                 shortcomings, faults, flaws. You might not be able to give me your great love                 yet   to take me to your breast with joy. But I can wait. I can grow great &                 beautiful through sorrow & suffering, working, struggling, yearning, loving so,                 all alone, as I have done now nearly three years   it will be three in May since                 I first read the book, first knew what the word love meant. Love & Hope are so                 strong in me, my souls high aspirations are of such tenacious, passionate intensity,                 are so conscious of their own deathless reality, that what would starve them out of                 any other woman only makes them strike out deeper roots, grow more resolute &                 sturdy in me. I know that ""greatness will not ripen for me like a pear."" But I could                 face, I could joyfully accept the fiercest anguish, the hardest toil, the longest,                 sternest probation, to make me fit to be your mate   so that at the last you                 should say ""this is the woman I have waited for, the woman prepared for me: this is                 my dear eternal comrade, wife   the one I so much want."" Life has no other                 meaning for me than that   all things have led up to help prepare me for that.                 Death is more welcome to me than life if it means that   if then, dear Sailor,                 thou sailing upon thy endless cruise, thou takest me on board   me, daring all                 with thee, steering for the deep waters, bound where mariner has not yet dared to                 go: hand in hand with thee, nestled close   one with thee. Ah that word                     enough was like a blow                 on the breast to me   breast that often & often is so full of yearning                 tenderness I know not how to draw my breath. The tie between us would not grow less                 but more beautiful, dear friend, if you knew me better: if I could stand as real                 & near to you as you do to me. But I cannot like you clothe my nature in divine                 poems & so make it visible to you. Ah foolish me! I thought you would catch a                 glimpse of it in those words I wrote   I thought you would say to yourself                 ""perhaps this is the voice of my mate"" & would seek me a little to make sure if                 it were so or not. O the sweet dreams I have fed on these three years nearly,                 pervading my waking moments, influencing every thought & action. I was so sure,                 so sure if I waited silently, patiently, you would send me some sign: so full of                 joyful hope I could not doubt nor fear. When I lay dying as it seemed, still full of                 the radiant certainty that you would seek me, would not lose [me], that we should as                 surely find one another there as here. And when the ebb ceased & life began to                 flow back into me, O never doubting but it was for you   never doubting but that                 the sweetest, noblest, closest, tenderest companionship ever yet tasted by man &                 woman was to begin for us here & now. Then came the long long waiting, the hope                 deferred: each morning so sure the book would come & with it a word from you                 that should give me leave to speak: no longer to shut down in stern silence the                 love, the yearning, the thoughts that seemed to strain & crush my heart. I know                 what that means   ""if thou wast not gifted to sing thou wouldst surely die."" I                 felt as if my silence must kill me sometimes. Then when the Book came but with it no                 word for me alone, there was such a storm in [my] heart I could not for weeks read                 in it. I wrote that long letter out in the Autumn fields for dear life's sake. I knew I might                 and must speak then. Then I felt relieved, joyful, buoyant once more. Then again                 months of heart-wearying disappointment as I looked in vain for a letter   O                 the anguish at times, the scalding tears, the feeling within as if my heart were                 crushed & doubled up   yet always afterwards saying to myself ""if this                 suffering is to make my love which was born & grew up & blossomed all in a                 moment strike deep root down in the dark & cold, penetrate with painful                 intensity every fibre of my being, make it a love such as he himself is capable of                 giving, then welcome this anguish, these bitter deferments: let its roots be watered                 as long as God pleases with my tears.""               Annie Gilchrist              50 Marquis Road Camden Sqr. N. W. London "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/rlc.00002.html," Walt Whitman to Rudolf Schmidt ,","Dec 7, 1871",0.592819257446,"  Department of Justice                     Washington Dec. 7 1871                                  Rudolf Schmidt,                 Dear Sir:              I have received, (through Mr. Clausen) your letter of 19th October, from Kopenhagen   & I cheerfully forward you my poems ""Leaves of Grass,"" & a small prose work of mine, ""Democratic Vistas."" I also enclose several articles & criticisms written about my books in England & America within the last ten years. May I say, there is something about your letter & application that has deeply pleased me. I should like to know your country & people   & especially you yourself, & your poet Björnson   and Hans Andersen. How proud I should be to become known to you all. Pray let me hear from you   and if the books & papers reach you safely. Please accept my best, brotherly good will. Any thing by mail will reach me addressed  Walt Whitman                 Washington, D. C.                 U. S. of America              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/yal.00398.html," Walt Whitman to W. H. Piper & Co. ,","Dec 8, 1871",0.592955256358,"  Department of Justice                     Washington.                     Dec. 7 1871.                                  W. H. Piper & Co.                 Dear Sirs:              Please send me acc't. & remit am't. sold   25 per cent off   of                  25 Copies ""Leaves of Grass"" @ $2.50 25 Copies ""Passage to India"" @ 1. 25 Copies ""Democratic Vistas"" @ .75                  sent you on sale, & receipted by you Nov. 3, 1870.                  Respectfully, &c.                 Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/pml.00031.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Dec 25, 1871",0.595267237862,"  Department of Justice                     Washington 187.                     Dec. 25   Evening ½ past 6     Well, mama dear, Christmas day is finished, & I thought I would just send you a line   We have had a mild day, as warm as spring   I took dinner at O'Connor's by invitation   we had an excellent dinner   I am invited to Dr. Channings this evening, but I hardly feel like going, & shall not go   They are very clever people, & have invited me to Newport next summer    I am writing this in the office, (alone in my own room)   I have just time to catch the mail   I hope you have had a nice Christmas, mama dear   May be George & Lou are with you   (I hope you will all take a glass of the Spanish wine)    I believe I told you in my last that I wrote to Martha and Han   Good bye, mama dear, for this time, & Love to you & Lou & all     Walt.              Mother, I will send the order in my next   The bells are all ringing for 7 oclock church   there is a chime of bells in one of the churches   they are playing an old hymn tune   it sounds good   it is a beautiful moonlight night    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/upa.00012.html," Walt Whitman to Anne Gilchrist ,","Dec 26, 1871",0.595403236774,"  Washington, U. S.                     Dec. 26, '71.                                  Dear friend,              Your late letter has just reached me   & I write at once to at least say specifically that both your letter of Sept. 6 and that of Oct. 15 safely reached me   this that comes to-day being the third. Again I will say that I am sure I appreciate & accept your letters, & all they stand for, as fully as even you, dear friend, could wish   & as lovingly & bona fide.                   Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/pml.00033.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Dec 27, 1871",0.595539235686,"  Department of Justice                     Washington Dec 27 1871.                                  Dearest mother,              There is nothing special to write about to-day. The new Attorney General Mr. Williams has been in once or twice   he is a tallish, western sort of man, wears a stove-pipe hat   is rather spare & a little round shouldered   sallow complexion   long legged   seems quite plain in his talk   Ashton says he is a good man   we will see   He takes his seat about the 10th Jan.  ½ past 10, forenoon   Mama, your letter has just come   It is too bad to have such a puppy as Stanton annoying you   He is one of the Heyde sort, it always seemed to me   Mother, write to me how it turns out   whether they leave or not    I see you have it very changeable there too   After the severest cold spell ever known here so early,                  we are just now having it mild & warm enough for spring   it rained here this morning, but is now bright & pleasant    I suppose Lou will be with you now   I should like first rate to just drop in on you all    I continue to get letters &c from abroad about my book   I believe I told you I got one the other day from Denmark,                  from the editor of the principal magazine there. He is preparing a review & partial translation of my writings    Mama dear, I hope you will have a pleasant holiday week, what's left of it   Don't let Stanton annoy you, the dirty scamp   Love to you, dearest mother, & to George & Lou & all.               Walt.              Write by next Sunday if convenient, & tell me if the order comes safe    Mother, give the enclosed $1 to the letter-carrier, if you think proper    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/pml.00032.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jan 1, 1872",0.596219230246,"  Department of Justice                     Washington. 187 Monday noon   Jan. 1, 1872.               Well, mother dear, New Year has begun   it is the funniest one yet   there is                 a fog as dark as Egypt here, sometimes you cant see a rod before you   it has                 been so for two days steady   very muddy, & spells of drizzling rain   I                 am well & hearty    I am just informed that I am to be transferred over to the Treasury Building, into                 the Solicitor of the Treasury's office (it is in the Department of Justice   is                 a branch of it)   Mr.                 Williams, the new boss, wishes to bring some                 friend of his here   I do not know that I shall dislike the change   I can                 tell better all about it in a week or two    I have applied for a good long leave of absence, to commence about Feb. 1st   I                 shall probably get it, but without pay, (or with only a small part pay)   I am                 willing to take a leave without pay   I want to come home for a while, both to                 be home, & to see about the new edition of my books   I am real well &                 fat & hearty this winter   but I believe I have got a little set against one                 thing & another here, (especially the grub,) & I want a change for a couple                 of months very much    Mama dear, I want to hear about your last week   & George & Lou   I                 sent three letters to you last week, & papers   I knew that policeman                 Doyle that was shot dead here   he was Peter Doyle's                 brother   I was at the funeral yesterday   it was in the papers I sent                 you   love to you, dear mama     Walt.              I forgot to say Arthur Price is here, on the iron-clad Mahopac   the vessel is at the navy-yard   expects to sail                     soon   I am going down this afternoon to go on board the ship & see                     him   he is well & hearty. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/pml.00035.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jan 1, 1872",0.596219230246,"  Tuesday evening   Jan 23                                  Mother, I wrote yesterday in my letter that I had a bad cold   I felt quite disagreeable yesterday, but went                  to bed early, & had a good sleep   to-day, Tuesday, I have felt all right. It has been snowing some here to-day   I have been out walking though   it is not cold   As I write this, I am sitting                  here in the office, (Treasury solicitor's) at 8 o'clock   have been reading & writing all by myself    Mother, you get Mrs. Bruce to give you Gracie's address in Iowa   I have just got some nice copies of my Am. Institute piece from Boston, & I will send her one   let Mr. or Mrs. Bruce write the address on a slip of paper and you enclose it in your next   The last time I saw Arthur Price here he invited me to come down to the Navy yard here to visit his vessel, the Mahopac   so Saturday, after I left work, I went down   but found myself a day after the fair   the vessel had gone about an hour before I got there   I believe she has gone to Norfold. Mother, on those envelopes you have you just cross out, draw a line over this way, when you send them, & leave the rest, (like you did your last)   and they will come safe   I got your letter this morning   it is too bad the letter Mat sent Christmas was lost   that was a real nice present of a barrel of flour   Poor Mat, I feel real blue to think of her condition   but perhaps she will come round yet   and may be live as long as any of us    Well, mama dear, I will close for to-night & finish it to-morrow    Wednesday afternoon Jan. 24 Mother, I am feeling well to-day   I think my cold must have been a false alarm, or else I have got off very easy   The weather is bitter cold here to-day, but bright & clear    What do you hear from George   I kind of hope he will not go to Milwaukee   should not wish to have him & Lou live so far away, unless the inducement is very great    Nothing new in the office   I like this place just as well as the other   I have not a room to myself, it is true   We are pretty well crowded   they are mostly young men, & a good deal of noise & moving about   but I don't mind it, as it is only from 9 to 3   & my work is much easier   Has Eddy got well of his cold? I shall probably be on hand to eat some of Mat's cake   Good bye for to-day, mother dear     Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/pml.00036.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jan 3, 1872",0.59649122807,"  Wednesday noon   Jan 3.                                  Dearest mother,              Your letter of Sunday night came this morning   it seems indeed ""after a storm comes a calm""   You must have had quite an exciting week   still I think it must have been kind of good to have had George and Lou home   was Lou as kind and helpful as ever? About being alone, if you feel as I do about it, it is a satisfaction to be by one's self, as you grow old   (though perhaps not too much)   I was glad to hear about little Jim & Georgey   I am glad the Stantons are gone   they would only have been a continual nuisance    Mama, I shall come home, (if nothing happens more than at present known) and stay two months, & then return here to my place   I shall write in good time before    Mama dear, you must try to take as much comfort as you can   I hope Gracie comes in frequently   & Mrs. Mormon too   (she seems to me a good neighbor)     Walt.              This is the 2d letter this week    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/pml.00037.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Jan 5, 1872",0.596763225894,"  Department of Justice                     Washington 187 Friday evening   after 6                                  Mama dear, I believe I must send you a line for Saturday though I have little or nothing to write about   I am sitting here alone in the office, writing by my lamp   I went over to Baltimore last evening for a little trip   saw Mr. Emerson   he lectured there   John Burroughs wanted to go over & hear him   it was not interesting to me at all   but we had a pleasant little jaunt   got back about ½ past 11   Nothing different in the office   I except to go over in the Treasury Building, in the office of the Solicitor of the Treasury, as I told you   the new Attorney Gen'l Mr. Williams has assigned me there   but several important bits of work have had to be done just now, & today & yesterday I have had to do them   (as the old ladies say ""I guess they'll miss me a good deal more than they 'spected"")   so I have been held on to here so far    Mama dear, I hope this will find you well of your cold   and that you'll have a good Sunday    Congress convenes again next Monday   I met a man who saw Jeff about nine days ago in St. Louis. Good bye for this time, dear mother     Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/rlc.00001.html," Walt Whitman to Rudolf Schmidt ,","Jan 16, 1872",0.598259213926,"  Washington, D. C. United States.                     January 16, 1872.                                  Dear sir:              Supposing that the books & papers I sent you in response to your letter have safely arrived, I thought I would now write you a few lines. What I have to submit & say, I will just say without ceremony   confident you will receive it in the same spirit in which it is written. I sent you (by Mr. Clausen) my poems ""Leaves of Grass""   and little prose work ""Democratic Vistas""   also a piece I recited at opening of an Exhibition of Industry in New York; adding several criticisms, sketches, &c. about the books & about myself, written by different persons from different points of view. These will furnish you with sufficient material for your examination, digest, &c. The main object of my poetry is simply to present   sometimes by directions, but oftener by indirections   the Portraiture or model of a sound, large, complete, physiological, emotional, moral, intellectual & spiritual Man, a good son, brother, husband, father, friend & practical citizen   & Woman also, a good wife, mother, practical citizen too   adjusted to the modern, to the New World, to Democracy, & to science. My verse strains its every nerve to arouse, brace, dilate, excite to the love & realization of health, friendship, perfection, freedom, amplitude. There are other objects, but these are the main ones. The central purpose of ""Democratic Vistas"" is to project & outline a fresh & brawny race of original American Imaginative authors, with moral purpose, Hegelianism, underlying their works, poems   and with Science & Democracy   also thoroughly religious   (not ecclesiastical or sectarian merely.) And now an item for your proposed review: When you are composing your review, I would like to have you bring in, in a proper place, the following mentioned facts   that neither my poetic ""Leaves"" or ""Democratic Vistas"" is cordially accepted in the United States   nor do the chief literary persons or organs of the country admit the poems as having any merit, or recognize the author as a poet at all   that he has once indeed been ignominiously ejected from a moderate government employment at Washington by special order of a Cabinet officer there, for the sole & avowed reason that he was the writer of the book; that up to this time no American publisher will publish it (the author printing the various editions himself)   that many of the booksellers refuse to keep it for sale   that the swarms of versifiers and writers of book notices in America are quite generally banded against this new man (myself) and that his position, in his own country, both as to literary recognition & worldly prosperity, has been, and remains to-day, under a heavy & depressing cloud. Of course you will at the same time hardly need to be told that I take all this very coolly   that my book is written in the sun & with a gay heart   for these surely, fully belong to me. But I think a good foreign review of my works would be more complete by giving those facts   would be hardly complete without them   for they are the substantial facts, notwithstanding a few exceptions. Meanwhile, abroad, my book & myself have had a welcome quite dazzling. Tennyson writes me friendly letters, inviting me to become his guest. Freilegrath  translates & commends my poems. Robert Buchanan, Swinburne, and all the great English & Dublin colleges, affectionately receive me & doughtily champion me. And while I, the author, am without any recompense at all in America, the English pirate-publisher, Hotten, derives a handsome annual income from a bad & defective London reprint of my Poems. I wish you to speak of the purpose of ""Democratic Vistas."" (It is at present in danger of falling still-born here.) I should be glad to hear more from you, your magazine   Denmark too. For all, accept my friendliest good wishes.                  Direct                 Walt Whitman                 Washington, D. C.                 Solicitor's Office Treasury,                 United States America              Later   Upon reading over my letter within, previous to mailing it, I had almost decided not to send it   as a part of it may be open to the imputation of a complaining spirit, & querulousness   Yet as nothing can be further from my real state of mind, (which is more than satisfied, & delightedly grateful for my literary fortunes & reception by the world,) I will let it go. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00408.html," Walt Whitman to James S. Redfield ,","Jan 29, 1872",0.600027199782,"  Washington                     Jan. 29, 1872                                   My Dear Redfield,              The $25 you sent me last week duly arrived, for which please accept this Receipt, & my thanks.  Walt Whitman                 Solicitor's office Treasury              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00300.html," Walt Whitman to William Michael Rossetti ,","Jan 30, 1872",0.600163198694,"  Washington,                     January 30, 1872.                                  My dear Mr. Rossetti,              I send you my newest piece, (in a magazine lately started away off in Kansas, fifteen or eighteen hundred miles inland)   And also improve the occasion to write you a too-long-delayed letter. Your letters of July 9 last, & Oct. 8, were welcomed   since which last nothing from you has reached me. John Burroughs returned with glowing accounts of England, & heartiest satisfaction from his visits to you, & talks, &c. I saw him day before yesterday. He is well & flourishing. I still remain here as clerk in a government department   find it not unpleasant   find it allows quite a free margin   working hours from 9 to 3   work at present easy   my pay $1600 a year (paper)    Washington is a broad, magnificent place in its natural features   avenues, spaces, vistas, environing hills, rivers, &c. all so ample, plenteous   & then, as you go on, fine, hard wide roads, (made by military engineers, in the war) leading far away down dale & over hill, many & many a mile   Often of full-moonlight nights I have a habit of going on long jaunts with some companion six, eight miles away into Virginia or Maryland over these roads. It is wonderfully inspiriting, with such new presentations. We have spells here, night or day, of the finest weather & atmosphere in the world. The nights especially are at times miracles of clearness & purity   the air dry, exhilarating. In fact, night or day, this whole District affords an inexhaustible mine of explorations, walks   soothing, sane, open air hours. To these mostly my habits are adjusted. I have good sturdy health   am fortunate enough to almost always get out of bed in the morning with a light heart & a good appetite   I read or study very little   spend two or three hours every day on the streets, or in frequented public places   come sufficiently in contact with all sorts of people   go not at all in ""society"" so-called   have however the blessing of some first-rate women friends   My life, upon the whole, toned down, flowing calm enough, democratic, on a cheap scale, popular, suitable, occupied sufficiently, enjoying a good deal   flecked, of course, with some clouds & shadows. I still keep in good flesh & weight. The photos I sent you last fall are faithful physiognomical likenesses. (I still have yours, carte, among a little special cluster before me on my desk door.) My poetry remains yet, in substance, quite unrecognized here in the land for which it was written. The best established magazines & literary authorities (eminencies) quite ignore me & it. It has to this day failed to find an American publisher (as you perhaps know, I have myself printed the successive editions). And though there is a small minority of approval & discipleship, the great majority result continues to bring sneers, contempt & official coolness. My dismissal from moderate employment in 1865 by the Secretary of the Interior, Mr. Harlan, avowedly for the sole reason of my being the author of Leaves of Grass, still affords an indication of the high conventional feeling. The journals are often inveterately spiteful. For example, in a letter in the correspondence of a leading New York paper (Tribune) from a lady tourist, an authoress of repute, an allusion in the letter to mountain scenery was illustrated by an innocent quotation from, & passing complimentary allusion to me. The letter was all & conspicuously published, except that the editors carefully cut out the lines quoting from & alluding to me, mutilating the text & stultifying the authoress to her great vexation. This to give you a clearer notion   (and I distinctly wish my friends in England writing about my book for print, to describe this state of things here.) Of general matters here, I will only say that the country seems to have entirely recuperated from the war. Except in a part of the Southern States, every thing is teeming & busy   more so than ever. Productiveness, wealth, population, improvements, material activity, success, results   beyond all measure, all precedent   & then spreading over such an area   three to four millions square miles   Great debits & offsets, of course   but how grand this oceanic plenitude & ceaselessness of domestic comfort   universal supplies of eating & drinking, houses to live in, farms to till, copious traveling, migratory habits, plenty of money, extravagance even   true there is something meteoric about it, and yet from an overarching view it is Kosmic & real enough   It gives glow & enjoyment to me, being & moving amid the whirl & din, intensity, material success here   as I am myself sufficiently sluggish & ballasted to stand it   though the best is with reference to its foundation for & bearing on the future   (as you doubtless see in my book how this thought prevails with me.) But I will turn to more special, personal topics. Prof. Dowden's Westminster Review article last fall made us all feel pleased & proud. He and I have since had some correspondence, & I have come to consider him (like yourself) fully as near to me in personal as literary relations. I have just written to him at some length. I have received word direct from Mrs. Gilchrist. Nothing in my life, nor result of my book, has brought me more comfort & support every way   nothing has more spiritually soothed me   than the warm appreciation & friendship of that true, full-grown woman   (for I still use the old Saxon word, for highest need.) I have twice received letters from Tennyson   & most cordial & hearty letters. He sends me an invitation to visit him. I deeply appreciate Swinburne's courtesy & approbation. I ought to have written him to acknowledge the very high compliment of his poem addressed to me in Songs Before Sunrise   but I am just the most wretched & procrastinating letter-writer alive. I have sent him my last edition, to care of Ellis & Green. If I should indeed come to England, I will call upon him among the first, & personally thank him. I received, some while since, a generous, impulsive, affectionate letter from Joaquin Miller   but have not yet met him personally. I hear he is now in far-off Oregon, amid the grand scenery there, studying & writing. I saw in a newspaper that he was writing a play. Wm O'Connor, wife & daughter have just gone on a month's pleasure trip to Cuba. I received some time since a most frank & kind letter, and brief printed poem, from John Addington Symonds, of Bristol, England. The poem Love and Death I read & re-read with admiration. I have just written to Mr. Symonds. I received Roden Noel's ""Study"" in Dark Blue for Oct. & Nov. last, & appreciate it   & also a letter from himself. I have sent him a copy of my last edition, & intend to write to him. I proposed by letter to Mr. Ellis (Ellis & Green) of London to publish my poems complete, verbatim. Mr. Ellis has written me a good friendly letter, but declined the proposition. I shall be happy to receive a copy of your Selections from American Poets, when ready   & always, always, glad, my friend, to hear from you   hope, indeed, you will not punish me for my own delay   but write me fully & freely.                  Direct                 Walt Whitman                 Solicitor's office Treasury,                 Washington, D. C.                 U. S. America              P.S. Will send the magazine by next mail. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01711.html," Walt Whitman to Rudolf Schmidt ,","Feb 2, 1872",0.60057119543,"  Feb. 2, 1872                    Dear Mr. Rudolf Schmidt:        Your note of Jan. 5, acknowledging receipt of ""papers,"" & enclosing to me your           photograph, is just received. I like your         photograph & thank you for it   & I like indeed the good frank way of         sending such pictures, where interested & curious. I wish to know whether you         have safely received the particular copy of the last edition of my poems, in One         Vol., with some sheet photos. enclosed, which I sent you by Mr. Clausen. Mr. C. tells me that he put up the various matter I         furnished in three parcels   if you have got the three it is all right. I mailed you a letter of some length, Jan. 16. I shall send you, probably by next         mail, my latest piece, in a western magazine for February. Also a second         copy of my pamphlet ""Democratic Vistas""   If the first copy reached you, send         the second to Mr. Bjornson   if not, not. Yes, I am sure         I should like your friend Bjornson much. I am going next week to New York to stay there till April 10   my address there         will be 107 north Portland av. Brooklyn, New York, U. S.           America   about April 10, I shall return here again, & my address         will be    I am writing this at my desk   as above, Treasury Building, middle of         afternoon   From my great south window I can see a far-stretching & noble         view, many, many miles of open ground, the Potomac river, the hilly banks, the         mountains of Virginia &c. We are having a severe cold spell. Every thing is         white with snow, but the sun has been clear & dazzling all day   The hour of         office-closing is nigh. And I too must close. I have much pleasure in writing to         you, & expecting yours.        Adieu.           "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01904.html," Rudolf Schmidt to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 5, 1872",0.600979192166,"image 1image 2image 3image 4  Copenhagen                     5 Febr: 1872.                                  Walt Whitman                     Washington.                 Dear Sir:              I will send you a few lines in reply to your kind letter of 16 January, which I have received today. That the papers are in my hands you probably are informed of at present. On the 5th January I wrote to Claiusen and inclose a sheet for you. I am at present composing my article; in the [illegible] of March it shall be in your hands.                                                                                       If I did not write the English language so very imperfectly I should have a great deal of things to tell you privately. Of course the facts, you are pointing at have not escaped me. The newspaper articles as well as the book of John Burroughs have given me all  [illegible] information. J. B's book has  [made?] me very great pleasure, the article of the English lady in ""The Radical"" also. Your ""Democratic vistas"" I have yet not read completely. What I have read has astonished and delighted me. There are words of a                                                     genius superior to all the political and literary nonentities of the day and worthy the great horizons of your proud country, from which nevertheless the names of [radi?]cals as James Fisk have hithe[rto?] been the most resounding. I read yesterday some part of ""Democratical Vistas"" to the Professor Rasmus Nielsen, one great Scandinavian philosopher and according to [my?] conviction the mightiest [illegible] living genius of the world at present   he was astonished and delighted, he also! Your ideas and ours are meeting                                                                      a glad congenialness [illegible] [fighting with?] the same combat! The rest you shall have through the printer would there are Danes enough in Washington and a verbal transaction you may easily have. Clausen has a number of the periodical for November 1871; among its contents is an article of the democracy of America. Perhaps it could have interest for you to get acquainted with it.                  Most truly yours                 Rudolf Schmidt              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01961.html," John Addington Symonds to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 7, 1872",0.60125118999,"image 1image 2image 3image 4image 5image 6image 7image 8   Feb: 7. 1872.                 Dear Mr Whitman              Your letter found me today. This is my permanent address. I live here in a large old                 house wh.                                  belonged to my father   a house on a hill among trees looking down upon Bristol                 with its docks & churches   a picturesque labyrinth of masts & spires                 & houseroofs. Your letter gave me the keenest pleasure I have felt for a long time. I had not                 exactly expected to hear from you. Yet I felt that if you liked my poem you would                 write. So I was beginning to dread that I had struck some quite wrong                 chord   that perhaps I had seemed to you to have arrogantly confounded your own                 fine thought & pure feeling with the baser metal of my own nature. What you say                 has reassured me and has solaced me nearly as much as if I had seen the face &                 touched the hand of you   my Master! For many years I have been attempting to express in verse some of the forms of what                 in a note to Democratic Vistas (as also in a blade of Calamus) you call                 ""adhesiveness."" I have traced passionate friendship through Greece, Rome, the                 medieval & the modern world, & I  have now a large body of poems written but                 not published. In these I trust the spirit of the Past is faithfully set forth as                 far as my abilities allow. It was while engaged upon this work (years ago now) that I first read Leaves of                 Grass. The man who spoke to me from that Book impressed me in in every way most                 profoundly & unalterably; but especially did I then learn confidently to believe                 that the Comradeship, wh. I conceived as on a par with the Sexual feeling for depth                 & strength & purity & capability of all good, was real   not a                 delusion of  distorted                 passions, a dream of the Past, a scholar's fancy   but a strong & vital bond                 of man to man. Yet even then how hard I found it   brought up in English feudalism, educated at                 an aristocratic public School (Harrow) and an over refined University                 (Oxford)   to winnow from my own emotions & from my conception of the ideal                 friend, all husks of affectations & aberrations & to be a simple human                 being. You cannot tell quite how hard this was, & how you                 helped me. I have pored for continuous hours over the pages of Calamus (as I used to pore over                 the pages of Plato), longing to hear you speak, burning  for a                 revelation of your more developed meaning, panting to ask   is this  what you would                 indicate?   Are then the free men of your lands really so pure & loving                 & noble & generous & sincere? Most of all did I desire to hear from you                 own lip    or from your                 pen   some story of athletic friendship from wh. to learn the truth. Yet I dared                 not to address you or dreamed that the thoughts of a student could abide the                 inevitable shafts of your searching intuition. Shall I ever be permitted to question you & learn from you? What the love of man for man has been in the Past I think I know. What it is                  now, I know also   alas! What                 you say it can & shall be I dimly discern in your Poems. But this hardly                 satisfies me   so desirous am I of learning what you teach.  Some day,                 perhaps   in some form, I know not what, but in your own chosen form   you                 will tell me more about the Love of Friends! Till then I wait. Meanwhile you have                 told me more than anyone beside.    I have been led to write too much about myself, presuming on what you said, that you                 should like to know me better. It will give me sincere pleasure to receive a copy of your book from you. I am                 grateful to you for purposing to give me so great a gift. Will you complete the                 benefit by sending me a portrait of yourself?    It is good to hear that your work does not deny you leisure. Work with an ample                 margin of freedom is the best thing for man; but I cannot believe in the modern                 Gospel of Work & no  leisure. This ends in a Science of Human Mechanics.    When I am free enough from home duties, I hope to be for America, on a tour with my                 wife. Then I shall request to be permitted to pay respect to you in                 person.    That you may know my face I enclose 2 portraits. The little girl in one of them is my                 youngest child.                  I am your ever grateful & indebted                 John Addington Symonds              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/upa.00013.html," Walt Whitman to Anne Gilchrist ,","Feb 8, 1872",0.601387188902,"  February 8, 1872.                                  Dear friend,              I send by same mail with this, my latest piece, copied in a newspaper   & will write you just a line or two. I suppose you duly received my former letters (two)   I ought to have written something about your children (described to me in your letter of last summer, July 23d, which I have just been reading again)   Dear boys & girls   how my heart goes out to them    Did I tell you that I had received letters from Tennyson, & that he cordially invites me to visit him? Sometimes I dream of journeying to Old England, on such visit   & then of seeing you & your children   but it is a dream only. I am still living here in employment in a Government office   My health is good   Life is rather sluggish here   though not without the sunshine   (Your letters too were warm, bright rays of it)    I am going on to New York soon to remain there a few weeks   but my address will still be here   I wrote lately to Mr. Rossetti quite a long letter   My present address is Solicitor's Office, Treasury, Washington, D. C. U. S. America.                  Best love & remembrance to you, dear friend, & to the young folk                    Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01962.html," John Addington Symonds to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 25, 1872",0.603699170407,"image 1image 2image 3image 4  Clifton Hill House                     Bristol                     Feb 25 1872                 Dear Mr. Whitman              I received the Washington newspaper with your new poem, for which I hasten to thank you. It is, I think, in your finest style. The conception is most impressive: for this transference to the unseen spiritual influences of the night, of what the poet feels of past splendor, &  of Love and Struggle in the present life, & of Faith for the future, strikes somehow                                                     a soul-thrilling & elevating chord that tunes the whole poem to the pitch of a Heroic Symphony. Movements v & viii are especially grand. Who indeed but you are the Singer of Love & Faith in their new advent? I have nothing worthy to send you in return. But yet I must exchange my token for yours   brazen for golden gifts, as the Greek poet said.                                                    Therefore I venture to enclose a study of Greek friendship. The misfortune of my poem is that it presupposes much knowledge of antiquity   as for instance that this Aristodemus returning alone from Thermopylae to Sparta was visited there with universal disgrace, that the Spartan youths lived not at home but in bands called ""Herds,"" that the Spartans sacrificed to Love as the inspirer of Heroism before engaging in battle, & that, as a mere matter of recorded history, Callicrates was                                                     the most beautiful man among the Spartans & that he died in the ranks at the very opening of the battle of Platea. You to whom all things seem at first sight clear will need no further explanation. I wrote to you some days since. More now I will not add   except that                  I am ever yours                 J. A. Symonds.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01905.html," Rudolf Schmidt to Walt Whitman ,","Feb 27, 1872",0.603971168231,"image 1image 2image 3image 4                                        Fra                     Red. af   �For Ide og Virkelighed"".                                                       Kjøbenhavn, d. 27 Feb 1872.                                  Dear Mr. Walt Whitman.                  I hereby acknowledge the receipt of your kind letter of 2 Feb, which has been in my hands for some days. On the 5th January I duely received all the three parcels    Your letter of 16th January I replied to immediately on the 5th February. Of course my letter has gone to Washington. The other copy of ""Democratic Vistas,"" [illegible] shall have; but he [illegible] understand                                                     only a very little English. If the whole book could be translated into Danish it would fall as a crossing lightning over all the controversies in these northern countries. But our democrats   I am ashamed of telling it you!   are very silly persons   , and our bourgeoisie will not buy the book. I am closing in these days my article on you   . Indeed I am too much occupied with you to write you any more. In the final week of March I shall send two copies of our February number by pr post, the one to you                                                                        in New York, the other to Clausen in Washington. I wish you good days with your mother.                  Truly yours                 Rudolf Schmidt              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00301.html," Walt Whitman to John Burroughs ,","Mar 15, 1872",0.606283149735,"  107 north Portland av.                     Brooklyn, N. Y.                     March 15.                               We have had cold & spiteful weather all the time of my visit here   over a month   & I have not had my usual outdoor enjoyment, loafing about &c   have been indoors most of the time   I also caught cold just on coming here, & it has bothered ever since. How are you, dear friend? & how is 'Sula   dear friend, too   Write me a few lines, John   let me know how Chauncey is getting along   if he finds any difficulty   but I guess not   I guess he is getting along well   Is there any thing new among my friends there in Wash'n? I have got out my new edition, from same plates as the last, only all bound in One Vol.   neatly done in green cloth, vellum   looks the best & most ship-shape of any edition yet   have not added any of my later pieces in this   leaving them to some future issue    Rec'd a letter from Mrs. Gilchrist in England   she has been reading ""Wake Robin"" & takes to it greatly   says Rossetti dined at her house not long since   (You know she is the authoress of the ""Woman's Estimate,"" in the Radical)    John, I think it likely I shall return about the 1st of April   Mother has had a bad spell for three days, but is about as usual again, yesterday & to-day   direct to me here                     Love to all,                 Walt.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/yal.00400.html," Walt Whitman to William J. Linton ,","Mar 22, 1872",0.607235142119,"  107 North Portland av. Brooklyn,                     March 22.                                  My dear Linton,              Your kind letter came duly to hand. I have been delaying to write you about the portrait in answer   wanting you to do it   & wanting, if I could arrange it, to give you the full price   I will not have the job done by any second-rater, & have concluded to give it up for the present   unless it could be done by you for $50, which, I am fully aware, would not be your due engagement. I return to Washington in ten or twelve days. Is there any chance of your coming on there? "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/rlc.00004.html," Walt Whitman to Rudolf Schmidt ,","Apr 4, 1872",0.609003127975,"  Brooklyn, New York,                     April 4, 1872.                                  Mr. Rudolf Schmidt,                 Dear Sir & Friend,              Your magazine with the article on my book has safely reached me   & a second copy in sheets   also your last letter. I only write now to make prompt, brief acknowledgment. I have gleaned a general knowledge of the article, & it pleases me very much. I have seen Clemens Petersen in New York, & he ran over it for me. He has been very ill with erysipelas, but is now nearly well. I am to return to Washington in two or three days. I will write to you thence more fully, & hope to continue having letters from you   My address will be Solicitor's Office, Treasury.  Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01712.html," Walt Whitman to Samuel Ward ,","Apr 26, 1872",0.611995104039,"  Washington           April 26.                 Walt Whitman sends his heart-felt respects & thanks to Mr. Ward, for the prompt & generous contribution of $25.          The money was conveyed by W. W. to the gentleman intended (Louis Fitzgerald Tasistro,) at noon to-day, & will do him infinite good.         "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00411.html," Walt Whitman to Alfred , Lord Tennyson ,","Apr 27, 1872",0.612131102951,"  April 27, 1872.                 My Dear Mr. Tennyson:              This morning's paper has a vague sort of an item about your coming to America, or wanting to come, to view the working of our institutions, etc. Is there anything in it? I hope so, for I want more and more to meet you and be with you. Then I should like to give my explanations and comments of America and her shows, affairs, persons, doings, off-hand, as you witness them, and become puzzled, perhaps, dismayed by them. America is at present a vast seething mass of varied material human and other, of the richest, best, worst, and plentiest kind. Wealthy inventive, no limit to food, land, money, work, opportunity, smart and industrious citizens, but (though real and permanently politically organized by birth and acceptance) without fusion or definite heroic identity in form and purpose or organization, which can only come by native schools of great ideas   religion, poets, literature   and will surely come, even through the measureless crudity of the States in those fields so far, and to-day. The lesson of Buckle's books on civilization always seemed to me to be that the preceding main basis and continual sine qua non of civilization is the eligibility to, and certainty of boundless products for feeding, clothing, and sheltering everybody, infinite comfort, personal and inter-communication and plenty, with mental and ecclesiastical freedom, and that then all the rest, moral and esthetic, will take care of itself. Well, the United States have secured the requisite bases, and must now proceed to build upon them. I send you by same mail with this, a more neatly printed copy of my ""Leaves""; also ""Dem. Vistas."" Your letter of last fall reached me at the time. Have you forgotten that you put a promise in it, to send me your picture when ""you could lay hands on a good one?""              I have been in Brooklyn and New York most of the past winter and current spring, visiting my aged dear mother, near eighty. Am now back here at work. Am well and hearty. I have received two letters from you, July 12 and September 22, of last year. This is the second letter I have written to you. My address is: Solicitor's Office, Treasury, Washington, D. C., United States. Write soon, my friend. Don't forget the picture.  Walt Whitman.              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/duk.00658.html," Walt Whitman to James C. McGuire ,","May 2, 1872",0.612811097511,"  Washington,                     May 2, 1872.                                  My dear Mr. McGuire,              The money you gave me for Mr. Tasistro has been handed by me to him, and has substantially helped him. I have been out to see him several times since I met you   he is up & about & in much better spirits   has great thoughts of getting well, & going to work to earn his living himself. He has had a very hard time during the winter   Can never again be strong & well   but has indomitable vitality.  Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/rlc.00005.html," Walt Whitman to Rudolf Schmidt ,","May 28, 1872",0.616347069223,"  Washington                     May 28, 1872                                  My dear Rudolf Schmidt,              I have rec'd yours of April 25. Having an opportunity by Mr. Clausen, who is journeying home to Denmark, I send you some books   another copy of Leaves of Grass   and a copy for Björnsen   (though he may not read English, I have wished to send him something   & when he chances upon someone who reads English and Danish, I should be so glad to be communicated to him.) Your article in the Ide will soon be translated for me in full. It is pronounced magnificent by those who can read it. I shall have much to say about it in my next. I send you two or three humorous American works. The subject of American humor is very difficult to treat fully & satisfactorily, even for a native. In the books I send, the great difficulty will be the slang, the American local idioms, & the mis-spelling   all of which will certainly prove chevaux-de-frise making it impossible for any foreigner to penetrate the fun of them   Still I have thought it worth while to send them as (much more than the comic & pictorial papers) idiomatic, native specimens, (as minerals or insects)    American humor is yet in its nebulous state   unformed   struggling to be born. Some traits already appear   it is very grim, loves exaggeration, & has a certain tartness & even fierceness   I will endeavor to gather something more for you on this business   & write you again    I am going soon to a College about 500 miles from here to deliver a commencement poem   it will be published, forming part of a little book   which I will send you   During June I shall be home with my mother in Brooklyn, N.Y.   then return again here    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/rlc.00006.html," Walt Whitman to Rudolf Schmidt ,","Jun 4, 1872",0.617299061608,"  Washington                     June 4, 1872.                                  My dear Rudolf Schmidt,              I have sent you some books by Mr. Clausen   All the real flavor of American fun resides in its idioms, which are untranslatable expressions of elements in the places, people, & nativities here   perceptible enough here, but in the nature of things invisible & inaudible to a foreigner   The extracts I enclose will illustrate    Mr. Clausen started for Denmark last Saturday, June 1st. I am just having your criticism fully rendered into English   I am to obtain possession of it next Thursday   From what I get of it, in advance, it is going to prove the grandest response & praise yet given anywhere to me & my poems. I rec'd the newspaper. I shall keep you advised of any printed use made of your criticism in this country   (The brief of the N. Y. Commercial Advertiser, has been copied in the papers somewhat.) From the 10th of June to 10th of July I shall be home in Brooklyn, New York, & then return here again    We are in the midst of the preparations & canvassing for one of our national elections   the election is next November   (for President for the term from March 4, 1873, to March 4, 1877)   There is nothing very radical or important in the political questions   it is mostly an excitement of personal piques, & for the spoils, as we call it, (i.e. the pay & perquisites of office)    One of our great nominating Conventions is just now meeting, (at Philadelphia)   You would enjoy the sight of such a spectacle greatly   there are many hundreds of delegates, and many thousands of active interested followers. (All voluntary   all perfectly good natured)   such talking, such gesticulation, such immense crowds by day & night   such manoevering by the different coteries, for their favorite men, (to get ""the nomination"")   &c. &c. &c.   It is all very salutary exercise for the bulk of the people. But the spectacular part of the scenes is the best, especially at night   many bands of music     Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00303.html," Walt Whitman to John Burroughs ,","Jun 18, 1872",0.619203046376,"  Brooklyn,                     June 18.                                                       John Burroughs,                 Dear friend,              I rec'd your letter this forenoon, & went over to New York to see about the trunks   finally found the man in charge of expressage on board the Mary Powell, who said that he took them up to Rondout on the Powell yesterday, & landed them, to be forwarded to you   So I take it that they have all reached you safely before you get this. I am home here in Brooklyn, having the usual sort of a time   Mother is only middling this summer   My brother George & his wife, at Camden, N. J., are so strenuous for mother to break up housekeeping & go live with them, that I think she will go, next September    I expect to be on hand at Hanover on Wednesday afternoon 26th   it is middle or latter part of the afternoon I am to be on exhibition   shall hope to see you, dear friend, on the great occasion     Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/har.00055.html," Walt Whitman to the Editor , Boston Daily Advertiser ( ? ) ,","Jun 25, 1872",0.62015503876,"  New York                     June 25.                                  Private                 My dear Sir:                                I send herewith a proof of my poem, for convenience for use in your paper, should you think it desirable. As the piece is to be delivered on Wednesday, June 26, you are at liberty to print it, if you wish, in your paper of Thursday, [June] 27. Of course not before.                  Very respectfully,                 Walt Whitman              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/prc.00026.html," Walt Whitman to Charles W. Eldridge ,","Jul 19, 1872",0.623419012648,"  Broadway, N.Y.           Friday Afternoon   July 19.                  Dear friend,        I rec'd your letter yesterday, and was particularly pleased to get it, bringing late          intelligence about you all. It was a good letter. What you say about William, fagged          with work & I suppose the weather   & Nelly, half-sick, & Jennie about the same (but          she will soon spring up)   aroused my sympathies   Mother & I talked about them all   I send love to all. Nelly, I shall return next week, & then I shall surely come to          the house, & see you & all.        Charley, I went leisurely up the Connecticut valley, by way of Springfield, through          the best part (agriculturally, & other) of Massachusetts, Connecticut & New Hampshire,          June 24th & 25th by day light   26th & 27th at Hanover, N.H.   28th & 29th slowly up the          White River valley, a captivating wild region, by Vermont Central R.R. & so to Burlington,          & about Lake Champlain where I spent a week, filling myself every day, (especially mornings          & sunsets) with the grandest ensembles of the Adirondacks always on one side, and the Green          Mountains on the other   sailed after that down Champlain by day   stopt at Albany over night,          & down the Hudson by boat, 4th of July, through a succession of splendid & magnificent          thunderstorms (10 or 12 of them) alternated by spells of clearest sunlight   Then home          some five or six days   immediately following I was ill, real ill   I suppose the excessive          heat, &c &c   but am now feeling all right.        Upon the whole, I have stood the unprecedented heat pretty well. Mother is not very well   has spells of weakness   has rheumatism   then good days again   will break up from Brooklyn          in September, & go with George, at Camden   as they are vehement for it.        My sister Martha at St. Louis is better far than one would expect, after the alarm          of two months ago   she has since no trouble with the cancer, (or supposed cancer)   Jeff & the children well   My sister Hannah, (Mrs Heyde,) in Burlington, I found          better than I had anticipated   every thing much better    Charley, who do you think I have been spending some three hours with to-day,          from 12 to 3   (it is now 4½)   Joaquin Miller   He saw me yesterday toward dusk          at 5th av. on a stage, & rushed out of the house, & mounting the stage gave me his address,          & made an appointment   he lives here 34th st. in furnished rooms   I am much pleased,          (upon the whole) with him   really pleased & satisfied   his presence, conversation, atmosphere, are infinitely more          satisfying than his poetry   he is, however, mopish,          ennuyeed, a California Hamlet, unhappy every where   but a natural prince, may-be an          illiterate one   but tender, sweet, & magnetic   Love to you, dear Charley, & to all   I will soon be with you again     Walt.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/prc.00028.html," Walt Whitman to Alfred , Lord Tennyson ,","Sep 2, 1872",0.629538963688,"  Washington,           Sept. 2, 1872.                  Dear Mr. Tennyson,        After a long absence in the mountains & lakes of Vermont & northern New York, I am          now back again at work, & expect to remain here. Your letter of May 23d, also the          one with the picture, safely reached me. The picture is superb, & I consider myself          in luck, possessing it. It brings you very near me. I have it now before me.        I send you, by same mail with this, in a little book, my piece lately delivered for          Dartmouth College commencement, up north. Did Democratic Vistas reach you?        We have had, in this country, a summer more fit for the infernal regions   but now the          delicious Virginia September has set in, balmy cool, & one dilates & feels like work again.                 With best respects & love,         Walt Whitman        My address continues the same, Solicitor's Office Treasury, Washington, D.C.  "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01713.html," Walt Whitman to Thomas Carlyle ,","Sep 3, 1872",0.6296749626,"  Sept 3 '72.                             Dear Sir:        Following an impulse of the moment, I have just mailed to you two little books of mine   writing this note to introduce them   and taking permission to personally offer,          as it were, from America true respects & love.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/khs.00002.html," Walt Whitman to Richard J. Hinton ,","Oct 22, 1872",0.636338909289,"  Oct 22                             Dear Hinton:        Sign this with your name at the conclusion, and send it at once to the Kansas Magazine       with a note proposing it for their ensuing January number     Walt        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/owu.00007.html," Martha Whitman to Walt Whitman ,","Oct 28, 1872",0.637154902761,image 1image 2image 3image 4  St. Louis                         Oct 28th/72                                          Dear brother Walt                  I have received a good many letters and books etc. from you and have been very neglectful to thank you for remembering me but you must know dear brother that I think just as much of you as if I did write we talk about you and dear Mammy every day and wish it could be that you would visit us. we have such a nice home and the children are so large that you would enjoy them I often think of what you used to say about Hattie when she was a wild noisy little creature that was 'be patient Mattie she will make a fine girl' she is every thing that we would desire Jeff takes her out a great deal and it improves her much Jessie is not                                                                    behind her they both study hard and it is my greatest ambition to have them educated as Mammy says there will be one rich Whitman I would prefer to spend our money on the children. Now dear brother I want to talk a little business  with you Jeff and I have you know wanted Mammy to make us a visit but when she lived in Brooklyn she thought she couldn't come on account of Eddy but now George has Ed   and we think that Mammy can and ought to make us a visit we would make her so comfortable and Jeff would take her out riding I know she wants to come I wish you would write as soon as you receive this and tell me what you think about it. I intend starting for Camden next week and dont you think you could come on and see me then I can talk to you so much better than                                                                write and it seems so long since I have seen you that you must come if you can. I had a letter from Lou a few days ago and she wanted me to bring the children but I will not bring them it would not do. Jeff will be home and everything will go on just the same as if I was here Now Walt dont say that we cant have Mammy for we have set our hearts on it and the children are wild with delight at the prospect I hav'nt much to write about Jeff is quite busy but he is well and has good times he sometimes says if I was only strong and well that his cup of happiness  would be complete but there is always an if still I cannot complain some days I feel real strong and then the weather is bad and that affects me more than anything else but when I see you I                                                       will have a good talk the children have just returned from dancing school and are practicing some new steps they send lots of love to you and told me they would write soon Jeff has gone to the Opera and now with much love                      I subscribe myself your devoted                     Sister Mattie                  
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/duk.00663.html," Walt Whitman to James M. Edmunds ,","Nov 17, 1872",0.639874881001,"  Nov. 17                               J M Edmunds, P. M.           Dear Sir:        Your letter, referring me the ruling of the P. O. Dept. [as] to what the term          ""book manuscripts"" as used in Sec. 244. Postal Laws and Reg. includes, and what          it excludes, makes me then respectfully request that, if convenient, that ruling          shall be brought up before the proper officers of the Dept, to be reconsidered          and reversed for the following briefly stated reasons:        1st the word ""Book"" as used in the statute is unquestionably the generic term ""Book,""          comprehensive of all printed literary matter, (see Webster's Unabridged Dict. last          ed. p. 151.) A pamphlet, monthly or weekly magazine, the ""Living Age,"" the ""Galaxy,""          or any literary composition, or printed issue, or any collection of sheets of paper,          of literary character, or only two sheets, or one sheet   must, all & several,          be included in the term.        2d. The intention of Congress [&] of its post office, & other legislation to foster literature, education, authorship, general reading, publication, &c.          & be liberal to the press: is well known to the Dept. I might claim therefore that          the section must be construed generously. But I merely claim that it be construed          according to the exact meaning & definition of its own terminology   See the          Dictionaries   Webster   Book   a general name of every printed literary composition   The quest. a generic term   The question also is, Is a magazine   (i.e. a pamphlet)   a book   See dictionary   pamphlet . . . . . . . .          a small book   Worcester   pamphlet   a book consisting of only one or a few sheets stitched together, & not bound    I would respectfully apply a second time for a reconsideration & reversal of the          ruling of the construction in your Dept. of that proviso of Sec. 244 of Postal          Laws, which fixes the postage on ""book Manuscripts and corrected proofs passing          between authors & publishers,"" at the rate of ordinary printed matter, which          ruling, as furnished me, is that MSS. and corrected proofs from or to Magazines,          pamphlets, literary periodicals, &c. are          not included in this proviso, but shall pay letter postage.        Against this I again offer as follows: The main question is, What is a book in          fact, and in the meaning of the law?   I say, in both, it is        In the ruling furnished me by the Department, stress is laid on the distinction          Congress makes (in the postage rate) between Books and other printed matter, as          pamphlets, magazines, & newspapers. So they do make such distinction, invariably          in order to decrease the rate of postage of the latter.        The inference is a fair one then that if book MSS go for printed matter postage,          the pamphlet and Magazine MSS should at least do so. The distinction is made for          the purpose of favoring the periodical press. But it does not warrant any such          inference as in the ruling furnished.        All literary MSS. are ""book manuscripts,"" and when printed, they become ""Books""   and the law covers all (literary matter)   To contend otherwise would be same as          to confine the meaning of the word man as used by metaphysicians and statesmen          (by Jefferson in the Declaration of Independence for instance,) to mean a full          grown male person only   while, of course, it is an ensemble and generic term,          for both sexes, and all ages.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01119.html," John Burroughs to Walt Whitman ,","Jan 12, 1873",0.647490820073,"image 1image 2image 3image 4  Middletown N.Y.                     Jany. 12, 1873                                  Dear Walt,              I have thought of you very often since I have been up here, but have hardly had the                 time to write & tell you so. I left W. in great haste & since I have been                 here have been in the midst of a very maelstrom of business, all                 new, all strange, & very mixed; but I am now fairly master of the situation,                 & though I do not expect my troubles are over, yet I am better prepared to meet                 them. I have got a good accountant, a  competent                 attorney, a balance in the bank & ought to be happy. But it cost me a hang to leave W. I was so                 warm & snug & my nest was so well feathered; but I have really cut loose                 & do not expect to return again except briefly. I can make more money here, be                 much freer, be nearer home & have a new field of duties. My greatest loss will                 be in you my dear Walt, but then I shall look forward to having you up here a good                 long time at a stretch, which will be better than the crumbs I used to get of you in                 W. I expect it will take me a year or more to close up this bank, then I shall make                 me another nest among                 the rocks of the Hudson and try life my own master. I hope you are well & will                 write to me, & will go up & see my wife. It is very cold & wintery here,                 the thermometer at zero yesterday. I have just been out taking a sleigh ride &                 enjoyed it much. I have collected & turned over to the Government $13,000 since I have been here                 & have about $100,000 more to collect. By & by I shall have plenty of time to                 myself.                  With much love,                 John Burroughs              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/pml.00039.html," Walt Whitman to Abby H. Price ,","Feb 21, 1873",0.652930776554,"  Friday evening Feb. 21.                             Dear Friend Abby, and all my friends, Helen & Emmy & Mr. Arnold,        I will write a line only   My paralysis still leaves me extremely feeble   & with great distress in the head   but I shall certainly recover   mind just as clear as ever. I have lost my dear, dear sister Martha, in St. Louis   I appreciate your kind letter, Abby dear, and it is possible when I get better          it may be just the thing for me to come on a few days   but at present I can          hardly move ten steps without feeling sick   I am sitting here now in the          rocking chair in my room writing this   most of the time alone which          suits me best   it is paralysis of left side   Love to all     Walt        (My address is Solicitors Office Treasury) "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00312.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Feb 26, 1873",0.653610771114,"  Wednesday noon Feb. 26.                  Dearest mother,        I am getting along real well, upon the whole   I went out and over to the office yesterday            went in & sat down at my desk a few minutes   It was my greatest effort yet,          and I was afraid I had overshot the mark again, as I felt dizzy & tired last night            But to-day I feel getting along all right   I am going out a little to-day, but not much            I feel now over the worst of my bit of sickness, & comparatively comfortable           Poor Martha   the thoughts of her still come up in my mind, as I sit here          a great deal of the time alone   Poor Jeff, & poor children too           I have received a letter from Lillie Townsend   Aunt Sally is still living and well as usual, & nothing very new            I have just got a second note from Mrs. Price           Mother, I shall try to get out, & get my Feb. pay, I have to get it from the old office,          & then I will send you your $20. (I hope within a couple of days, or three at most)           I expect Mrs. Burroughs here probably to-day with a carriage to          take me out riding   so you see I am beginning to sport around           Every thing here now is inauguration   & will be till the 4th of March is over            for my part I want to get out of the way of it all                    Love to you, mammy dear, & to Georgey & Lou & all            Walt.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00315.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Mar 1, 1873",0.65401876785,"  Thursday, 2 o'clock p. m.                  Dearest mother,        I wrote you a short & very hurried letter last night, only a few minutes before the mail closed            To-day Mrs. O'Connor has just paid me a pleasant visit   & I have been eating my lunch          of a roast apple & biscuit   I am feeling about the same   I suppose you are most tired,          and perhaps a little suspicious of hearing I am ""about the same""            Well I am quite tired myself, & want much to get out, & go to work, & go about            But I just have to make the best of it, & console myself with realizing          that disagreeable as it is, it might be a great deal worse   & that I am          feeling free from pain & comparatively comforting, & that it cannot be very long          before I shall have the good use of my limbs again   So I just try to keep patient          & wait   & you must too, dearest mother           I got a good letter from Hattie to-day, dated March 9   she says she was writing to you            so I suppose you have one too   They seem to like it at Mr & Mrs. Buckley's.        Mother, I got your letter of Monday and Lou's of Sunday   it is an affection of the leg from the knee downward, partially helpless            but the principal trouble is yet in the head, & so easily getting fatigued            my whole body feels heavy, & sometimes my hand   Still, I go out a little          every day almost   accompanied by Peter, or some one   sometimes spend an hour out,          but cannot walk, except a very little indeed, very slowly indeed            Mother, in my looks you would hardly know the least thing had been the matter with me            I am neither pale nor thin in the least           Friday forenoon March 14.        I am sitting here in my room   it is very pleasant out apparently            I generally go out a little between two & three, and shall          probably get out a little this afternoon           John Burroughs has been on here again   he is trying to sell or let his house,          & does not succeed very satisfactorily   he left here again by the train last evening          & returned north   his wife is here   Mother, I send the Harper's Weekly            that picture gives a very good idea of the Capitol, (what they call the east front)            in the Extra is a picture of the inauguration ball   very good,          they say   you must look over them Sunday           Well, mother dear, it is now after 12   I expect to get out          a little from 2 to 3   Love to you & to Lou & George & all.         Walt.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00314.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Mar 9, 1873",0.655106759146,"  Sunday afternoon 5 o'clock.                             Dearest mother,        I will not write much to-day, as I have just come in from being out over two hours,          & I feel quite tired. I cannot walk any to speak of, but I have been out taking a          ride in the cars, and sitting in the parks a little while. Peter Doyle has been with me.          It is as pleasant and warm as summer here to-day. I have not rec'd any letters for the last two days            I suppose you got my letter Saturday   I have been out more to-day than any day yet,          as it has been so warm & fine   Love to you, mama dear, & to all            Walt.        Mother, write me what envelopes you would like to have me direct, & enclose you              I have not been over to the office yet, except that one time ten or twelve days ago.          "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00316.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Mar 17, 1873",0.656194750442,"  Monday afternoon March 17                       Well, mother dear, I feel quite well to-day considering   in good spirits,          & free from any pain   I suppose you got my letter Saturday last            The doctor has been here to-day, first time in three days            (so you see he don't think me a very critical case.)        We have had real March weather here for two or three days, strong & sudden winds, & dust            but it is pleasanter to-day   it is now about ½ past 1   I have had my lunch          & Mrs. O'Connor has come in for a few moments           I have a little piece in the N. Y. Graphic of Saturday afternoon, March 17   it is a daily afternoon paper   I write for it, so far   they pay moderately.        Mother, I feel to-day as if I was getting well   (but my leg is so clumsy yet            & my head has to avoid much talking or being talked to)   I hope this will          find you all right, dearest mother   I think about you much            Walt.        Mrs. O'Connor wishes me to give her love to you.          "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01258.html," William F. Channing to Walt Whitman ,","Mar 19, 1873",0.656466748266,"image 1image 2image 3image 4image 5image 6image 7image 8  Providence, R. I.                     March 19, 1873                 Walt Whitman                 Dear friend,              By my sister Nell's request I send you today by mail the best copy I could find of my Medical Electricity. The book is now out of print. When published in 1849 it was the most extended treatise in the English language, & it was original in almost all of its generalizations, in many of its observations & in quite a number of instruments now used all over the world, as well as in the collection & analysis of reported cases. It has been replaced by a score of much                               more pretentious books, published by medical electricilians in this country who have made my work their staple & appropriated it without credit, while of course adding new material! A few European works have appeared containing men  & valuable matter, & the science has grown so as to give the more recent publications a wider field & more assured ground. But I feel obliged to say, (& I think I do it impartially) that the later authors in this country have been all or almost all deficient either in thorough electrical or thorough physiological training, & their books are apt to contain [crotchets?] or are sometimes obviously wrtten to advertise a practitioner or to magnify & [mystify?] his peculiar methods. I have never listed a public complaint of the appropriation of my modest book, & have always formed sufficient recompense in the certainty that I have been of use in extending this application of electricity & perhaps in being the first to present an outline of electro-medical science. Excuse this long personal history of the book. I wrote to my sister my haunting fear that you might use electricity prematurely & incautiously & I rejoiced to hear that your physician agreed with me. In a word electricity must not be used while there is existing lesion of the brain or nerve-centres. On the other hand as irritation or inflammation of the nerve centres has been subdued by medical treatment, or overcome by rest & the recuperative forces of nature, electricity properly applied will almost always restore the paralysed members & functions. The exceptions are only where structural change of nerve centres or nerves has taken place to an extent beyond repair. But premature use of electricity, while there is existing lesion of the brain may induce congestion, apoplexy or convulsions. The proper way is to make the first experiment cautiously. It thus becomes possible to employ it as soon as it is indicated. The direct current of the galvanic battery (12 to 50 pairs), applied intermittently, is much more effective in the last resort than the electromagnetic, & often less disturbing. We heard of your sickness with great sorrow. I for one have felt my indebtedness to you for great thoughts & words more than ever before. I found in a book store a few days since a copy of your first (folio) edition, & I purchased it with a feeling of good omen. If I should say a word more to you as physician it would be that what you most need is entire rest of your habitually overworked brain. Undoubtedly travel & change of scene for a year would help you most after recovery has fairly commenced. But you ought not to go to England where excitement would await you. A course of Continental French, German, Swiss travel & a mediterranean (Sicilian or Grecian) climate for your next winter would be my ideal. Jeannie sends you her kindest regards & sympathy. She has intended to write you.                  Yours truly,                 Wm. F. Channing              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00418.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Mar 21, 1873",0.65673874609,"  March 21, Friday noon.                  Dearest mother,        I am still feeling on the gain to-day   I go out a little every day,          & think I shall try to make a beginning at work in the office Monday or Tuesday   beginning by degrees   I got a letter from Jeff yesterday, very good   they seem to like Mr. & Mrs. Buckley's   Jeff has some extra work, making plans          for new water works for Kansas City, Mo.   it is all the better   Mother,          I suppose you got the letters I wrote Monday & Wednesday, this week    It was dark and rainy here yesterday, but is pleasant to-day   I am going out a little this afternoon   I send you some more papers, to-day   mother, do you get the papers I send.          Already you can see the grass looking green here, on the south side of buildings,          & the willow trees are budding out slightly   Spring will soon be upon us   It is now noon, & I am sitting here in the room   Mrs. O'Connor has come in,          first time in three days   Mammy dear, I hope you will have a pleasant Sundays   Love to you and Georgie & Lou & all.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01120.html," John Burroughs to Walt Whitman ,","Apr 11, 1873",0.659594723242,"image 1image 2  Middletown N.Y.                     Apl 11, 73                                  Dear Walt:              I hear no news from you or of you. I thought you was going to drop me a line. I trust you are nearly well by this time & I hope this will find you with your mother & brother. Are you coming to N.Y. & thence to see me? I hope to hear that you are. I can meet you in N.Y. almost any time after next week. To-morrow I am going home to Roxbury to spend one week in sugar making. Wife & I are both well.                  With much love,                 John Burroughs              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00427.html," Walt Whitman to William Michael Rossetti ,","Apr 11, 1873",0.659594723242,"  Washington,           April 11, 1873.                        My dear Rossetti,        The bearer of this note is Col. Richard J. Hinton, of this city (though English by birth),          a friend of mine, who calls to make your acquaintance.          Truly yours,         Walt Whitman.        I have been very ill, from paralysis, but am recovering. Your books (two sets) reached me safely, and gave me great pleasure. I am perfectly satisfied            with the selections from my poems   and feel grateful to you for your kindness to me throughout            the books. I do not forget you. I will write again when I feel well. My address remains the same   Solicitor's Office, Treasury, here.  W.W.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00419.html," Walt Whitman to Mr. French ,","Apr 14, 1873",0.660002719978,"  To the Attorney Gen's Office, for Mr. French, Pardon Clerk.        Please unlock the case where my books & pamphlets are in Mr. French's room & send me by bearer 6 copies ""Democratic Vistas.""        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00420.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Apr 19, 1873",0.660682714538,"  April 19, Saturday.                       It is now about noon, & I have just come over to the office, and have put up the window          for a few moments, to stand & get the fresh air, & then put it down again. Right opposite          the window   in the President's grounds a man in his shirt-sleeves is raking up the grass          that has been already cut on a ¾ acre patch   so you can see spring has advanced here   the trees are quite green    Mother, I have had the second application of electricity to-day, quite a good application by Dr. Drinkard   he rubs the handles over my leg & thigh, for perhaps twenty minutes   the shock is very perceptible   it is not painful at all, feels something          like pressing a sore   I feel as I said before, that it will be beneficial to me,          (though there are different opinions about it)   I feel better to-day than yesterday   I think, mother dear, there is no doubt at all that I progress surely though very slowly,          (& with an occasional bad spell)    Did you read in the morning papers to-day about the fight with the Modocs out in California   & Col. Mason   I think (but am not sure) it is Jule Mason   it is quite interesting   I am going to work for a couple of hours now at my work in the office books   I am feeling quite comfortable this afternoon.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00417.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","Apr 21, 1873",0.660954712362,"  April 21st, Monday, 1 o'clock afternoon.                       Mother, I am decidedly improving   feel more like myself the last three days   I walk very clumsily yet, & do not try to get around by walking   but I think I am stronger now,          & my prospects are better than any time yet. The doctor has applied electricity again to-day,          making the third application   So upon the whole I think I am doing real well    I have rec'd a letter from Priscilla Townsend   She speaks of you, says that Aunt Sally          always wants to hear from you   She speaks of Sarah Avery's calling there, & of Mrs. Tripp, & all   nothing very new    I am writing this over at the office   It is pleasant here, but cloudy & coolish   Mother, I suppose you got my letter Saturday last   How is Sister Lou getting along   when you write tell me about her   George I suppose is full of business   Well I believe it is better for a man to have plenty to do, if he is well & active   Well, mamma dear, I have written you quite a rambling letter   Tell me when you want envelopes          & I will send them   write whenever you can   I think I shall be able to soon give a good account of my improvement.           "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01715.html," Walt Whitman to John Burroughs ,","Apr 29, 1873",0.662042703658,"  Washington,           April [29].                             Dear John Burroughs,        I rec'd your letter, & was glad to hear from you   I am still in a pretty bad way   I am writing this over at the office, at my desk, but feel to-day more like laying          down than sitting up   I do not walk any better, & my head has frequent distress   Still, for all that I slowly gain strength   very slowly   & shall yet get well as ever    Every thing goes on about the same, in the sphere of my affairs, &c. as when I last saw you   Mother is at Camden   mopes & worries a good deal about me   I don't feel like leaving here,          for visiting or any purpose, until I get so I can move about   The doctor is applying electricity, every other day   I have had it now five or six times   I anticipate benefit, in a while, but it makes no perceptible difference yet   How and where is 'Sula? I wish I was where I could come in & see her & you often   (those nice breakfasts were bright spots, & I shall not forget them)   if I could just get 'round and sit an hour or so for a change, & chat with 'Sula and you,          two or three times a week, I believe it would do me good   but I must take          it out in imagination   for it is impossible in reality    I got a long letter from Dowden   he mentions you   As I sit I look over from my office window on the President's grounds   the grass is green enough   they have already been over it once with the cutter,          & Saturday there were men out there in their shirt-sleeves raking it up   I have a big bunch of lilacs in a pitcher in my room   Washington looks about the same   rather cool & cloudy to-day   but pleasant weather may-be by the time you receive this   best love to you & 'Sula     Walt Whitman        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01578.html," Walt Whitman to Edmund Yates ,","May 7, 1873",0.663130694954,"  Washington, D.C.           May 7, 1873.                    My dear Edmund Yates,        Pardon me for my forgetfulness about the pictures. I send you three, to make it up.          I have been putting off every thing   forgetting every thing   till I feel well again   for I am still in a pretty bad way   but shall come round again by-and-by,          with the blessing of God   And so, (as Mr. Philp's messenger is waiting) I shake hands across   & abruptly bid you good bye, for this time.         Walt Whitman        My address here is Solicitor's Office, Treasury, and shall always be happy to hear from you.          "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00318.html," Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman ,","May 13, 1873",0.663946688426,"  Tuesday afternoon May 13.                  Dearest mother,        I suppose you got my letter Monday 12th (written Sunday.) I am still improving            (I don't feel quite as well to-day as for some days past            but it is a great advance on what I have been)   & am in good spirits           Dear mother, I feel very anxious about you   it is very distressing to have the nervous system affected,          it always makes one feel so discouraged, that is the worst of it   Mother,          I am afraid you are more unwell than you say   I think about it night & day            the enclosed letter came to me yesterday   Jeff sent it to me, by mistake          (may-be one for me has gone to you)   I got another letter from Jeff to-day   all are well   Jeff too is anxious about you            Mother, try to write a line soon after you get this   I am writing          this in the office   Mother, I shall come on            Walt.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00428.html," Walt Whitman to Dr. Bielby ,","May 20, 1873",0.664898680811,"  Tuesday May 20th                        Dear Doctor           I will be happy to receive a visit from Mrs. Bielby   will be in my room to-morrow, Wednesday,          from 10 to 11 ½ forenoon   Will always be happy to have visits from you or Mrs. B.  Walt Whitman        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01122.html," John Burroughs to Walt Whitman ,","Jun 2, 1873",0.666666666667,"image 1image 2image 3image 4  Middletown N.Y.                     June 2d 73                                  Dear Walt,              I got the Camden paper this morning containing the notice of your mothers death. I                 had heard through Eldridge a few days ago that all was over with her. I suppose it                 was not unexpected to you yet for all that the blow must have been a heavy one to                 all her children and doubly so to yourself. I should like to hear from you the                 particulars of her last days. I wish I might have seen her again. If you are able to                 write  do drop me a                 line & tell me about yourself & what your plans are for the summer. I hope                 you do not think of returning to W. before fall. I go to N. Y. to-morrow for a few                 days. While there a letter addressed to me care of George Bliss Jr. W. S. Atty,                 41 Chambers St. will reach me. If you can come North & spend some time with me I                 should be delighted. I am going out on L. I. to look at a place for sale, Yaphank                 on [Carmand?] Ruin. Do you know the country out there? My nephew, Chancy B. is with me for a few days but leaves to-morrow; so does Sulic                 for Kingston. They both                 speak affectionately of you & are much concerned on your account. The lilacs are in their prime here, but the season is getting dry.                  With much love.                 Ever Yours                 John Burroughs              "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/duk.00657.html," Walt Whitman to Charles W. Eldridge ,","Jun 23, 1873",0.669522643819,"  322 Stevens st. Camden, N. J. Monday afternoon June 23d                  Dear Charley,        I have now been a week here, & am about the same   well enough to keep up and around,          but with bad spells most every day, & sometimes very bad ones. My head does not get          right, that being still the trouble   the feeling now being as if it were in the          centre of the head, heavy & painful & quite pervading   locomotion about the same   no better. I keep pretty good spirits, however, & still make my calculations on getting well. I am pleasantly situated here   have two nice rooms, second floor, with windows north          & south, if there is any air. They are the rooms in which my mother died,          with all the accustomed furniture, I have long been so used to see.          I am quite satisfied here, so far   Sleep good, & appetite sufficient.          It has been warm weather here, but I have stood it fairly. I hear by your letter          & the papers it has been very oppressively hot in Washington. Today, as I write,          it is cloudy & cooler here. I have not felt well enough yet to strike out for Atlantic City. Charley, I rec'd your letter Saturday, with the one enclosed. (It was a very kind          sympathetic note from Kate Hillard.) I have written to Harry Douglas, my fellow clerk in the office,          asking him to send me my letters here under frank from the office, till July 1st   I am glad to hear Nelly is feeling better   I hope quite well   I send my best love to her   please hand her this letter to read   Nelly, I still feel that I shall pull through,          but O it is a weary, weary pull   & when I have these spells in the head that still afflict me,          it requires all my phlegm. My lift at the Ashton's was a great help to me   the change from the 15th st. rooms, & then the weather being so favorable   the change here is so far good, too   As soon as I get a little stronger,          & free from head-distress, I shall go down to Atlantic City   Remember me to Dr. Drinkard          if you see him, & if you have a good chance, read to him what I have said of my case   if he has any suggestions, write me    Charley, I have amused myself with Kenelm Chilinglly   read it all   like it well   Bulwer is such a snob as almost redeems snobdom   the story is good,          & the style a master's   Like Cervantes, Bulwer's old-age-productions          are incomparably his best. Send me a Chronicle occasionally.         Walt.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/duk.00666.html," Walt Whitman to Charles W. Eldridge ,","Jul 7, 1873",0.671426628587,"  322 Stevens st. Camden, N. J.           Monday forenoon July 7.                  Dear Charley,        Your letter came last week, enclosing one from the office. I have just written          to the Postmaster at Washington, asking him to forward my letters here,          as I suppose that can be done. How is it? Can it be done   do you know?          So you are to leave Washington on Thursday next   & Nelly and Jeannie are also   for a New England visit   May it be a pleasant & healthful & happy one for all of you.        In my case there is no notable amendment   & not much change   I have irregular spells          of serious distress, pain &c. in the head, full as bad as ever, sometimes lasting all day,          & sometimes part of the day or night only, with intervals in which, (while I remain still,)          I feel comparatively easy   but my locomotion is about as bad as it was   last evening I thought it worse than usual   (to-day it is not)   I am not taking any medicine, nor have I talked with any doctor since I left W[ashington]   nights & sleep are quite good   appetite middling   &c &c.   I still stay here,          afraid to go to Atlantic City, or any where, while I am liable every day          to these depressing spells   & incapacitated from walking    We have the weather in streaks of hot & cool here   last evening it turned coldish          & remains so this forenoon, very bright & pleasant   but we had it very hot here too, some days    By what I see in the Phil. Ledger and N. Y. Herald Wash[ington] items to-day, I infer that William has rec'd          the appointment of C[hief] C[lerk] at which I am truly pleased   Nelly,          as I suppose you will see this letter, I will send you my love in it,          and you must take this letter the same as if written to you   I wont ask you to write from W. at present in the midst of your preparations   but write me from Newport, after you get well rested & settled   did you see Dr. Drinkard? & did he say any thing new about my sickness or symptoms?        I have rec'd a letter from John Burroughs to-day   he & wife are evidently having real good          healthy country times away there in the cool uplands of Delaware county   he is home    I am feeling comparatively comfortable to-day, & still hope for the best   but   Charley,          go in to my office a moment, before you go & see if any letters   tell me if William is          definitely appointed   write very soon from Boston, if not before.         Walt.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00421.html," Walt Whitman to The Postmaster , Washington , D.C. ,","Jul 15, 1873",0.672514619883, [Walt Whitman gave instructions to have all his mail sent to Camden.] 
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00320.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Jul 26, 1873",0.674010607915,"  322 Stevens st. Camden, N.J.           Saturday after-noon, July 26.                             Dear friend,        Your welcome letter reached me to-day. Yours from Washington of over two weeks since,          also came safe. Since my letter of about three weeks since to Charles Eldridge   in which I wrote to you also   I have not improved any   the distress in my head          has not abated   some spells are very bad indeed   (but it fluctuates, some days,          or parts of days, leaving me comparatively comfortable.) Nor can I walk any better   some of the time, not so well   My saving points are pretty good nights' rest,          and a fair appetite, digestion, &c. Still I can see I am gradually being pulled,          and, though I have not at all given up hope of eventual recovery, I do not shut          my eyes to the other termination    I am very comfortable here, as I believe I told you, occupying mother's former rooms,          (a north & south one, second floor,) and with all her nice & homely furniture          & bed & chairs   & living day & night in her memory & atmosphere.        We are having the hottest sort of weather here   in New York and Washington it must be terrible   but here I find I stand it quite well. I rec'd a note from John Burroughs telling me          of his flitting visit to Newport & call on you. I have been waiting till I felt stronger,          to go to Atlantic City (Jersey sea shore) or Long Island, but in my present condition          feel it best to stay here   (Nelly, I don't feel as well as when you          used to come there to White's)   I shall be glad indeed to have Charles Eldridge come here & see me   & it will be a real disappointment if he does not   but I count on his coming          without fail   I hope to get a letter from him soon.        I still manage to get out a little, towards evening   not always, but nearly every day   get to the ferry boat, & sail to & fro across the Delaware, occasionally   I had seen in the newspapers of William's appointment, & was truly pleased   I hear from Peter Doyle quite regularly   he is well, & working at his dangerous post          on the Baltimore & Potomac RR   I miss him much   & I miss you too, Nelly   I am very lonesome here, (& yet I keep up very good heart)    If Charles Eldridge is there, I send him my love, & the same to all   to your daughter Jeannie, (whom you do not mention) & to your sister          & the Doctor, & all who in good will enquire for me   It is now between 3 and 4 Saturday afternoon   I am sitting here in mother's great arm chair   we have had a hot day   but a breeze is springing up   it is a shady quiet spot here   I shall try to hobble out soon though I am quite feeble.         Walt.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00422.html," Walt Whitman to John Burroughs ,","Sep 2, 1873",0.679178566571,"     �There is his old Brooklyn partner  �who is also a natural builder and carpenter          (practically and in effect) architect.   � My brother thinks (and I think so, too)          that if you have not committed yourself, you could not do better than to get Smith to plan and supervise and practically work with you  �an honest, conscientious,          old-fashioned man, a man of family  �youngish-middle-aged   you would like him   I do     �If you need him, & he will go, he is your man.        John, I think 'The Birds of the Poets' your best article, in many respects   it has a jaunty air, in a perfectly natural way   flits and hops and soars          and sings around in a birdish way itself   �I shall remain here for the present.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/mnh.00001.html," Walt Whitman to Byron Sutherland ,","Sep 2, 1873",0.679178566571,"  Sept. 2, 1873.                    Dear soldier boy,        I have been very sick for many months   & am still unable to work or go round   But think I shall recover yet. I send you a paper same mail with this,          containing a little piece that describes my case. I rec'd your letter of last June   have not only been sick, but in much trouble & affliction all summer   & I now write at a venture to see whether you are in Warren   & if so you must write to me at once. I have not forgotten you, my loving soldier boy, & never shall.         Walt Whitman         322 Stevens st.Camden,N. Jersey                          "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00311.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Sep 5, 1873",0.679586563307,"  Camden,           Friday afternoon, Sept. 5.                             Dear friend,        I still remain here in Camden, & in a condition not much different   alternating constantly between the bad spells, & then hours, & sometimes days,          not so bad. I suppose you rec'd the little Philadelphia paper I sent a week since   Dr. Grier here is confident my principal trouble is cerebral anæmia (blood not          properly going to the brain to nourish it)   says it arises from a long          continued excessive emotional action generally   & thinks it so has arisen in my case   does not think writing, or study, or ordinary brain action has been the cause   it has been long a-coming & will probably be long a-going   thinks I will get well however.        He thinks it has been coming on for many years, says I need rest, rest for a long time          & social exhilaration   (The paralysis, according to him, is only an incident, or result,          & not the cause-disease)   Since I have been here I have followed Dr. Drinkard's advice   taken no medicine, & lived very prudently   (I still quite thoroughly believe in Dr. Drinkard)    Charles Eldridge called upon me on his way back   his visit was a great treat,          & was only too short   I rec'd a letter from him a few days since   all goes on as usual in Washington matters we are interested in   I have a substitute working for me at my desk, and he seems to give satisfaction   When I shall be able to go to work again, if ever, is as indefinite now as it has been for over seven months    I have rec'd a letter from John Burroughs. He has bought some land at Esopus,          on the Hudson, west bank, some 80 miles from New York, & is going          to build him a house & home there forthwith.        I get out some   went over to Philadelphia yesterday   go sometimes          to the Mercantile Library Reading Room, as it is very pleasant there          for a change   or rather for a place to go to & rest   though the atmosphere          of a reading room soon weighs on me, & I feel like retreating   Yesterday          took a ride up in the Market st. cars to West Philadelphia   & was caught in a violent shower coming home in the evening, & nicely soaked   Soon as I got home it stopt, and we had a splendid moonlight evening   It is bright & clear to-day, & rather hot   It is socially here an utter blank to me   my cynical dread of being bored by any one is now completely gratified with a vengeance   I look long & long at my mother's miniature, & at my sister Mat's   I have very good one's of each   & O the wish if I could only be with them    Nelly, this has grown to be a perturbed sort of letter   & had better be torn up   but I will let it go.         Walt.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/pml.00040.html," Walt Whitman to Abby H. Price ,","Sep 9, 1873",0.680130558956,"  Camden,           Sept. 9.                    Abby,        your letter has come, & is welcome. Dear Abby, & dear friends all,          the doctors say I will get well, & I say so too   but which ever way it goes,          it will be all right   the little Philadelphia paper piece was about the right          statement of my case from a favorable point of view   I shall remain here          for the present   I get around middling well   the worst is bad spells in the head          which persistently return   if I get a little better I may like to come on          & pay you a visit   upstairs will do just as well for me, as I get up & down          better than you would think. I will write to you beforehand should I come.        My brother Jeff has come on from St. Louis for a while   stopt here yesterday          though only a few hours   has gone on to N.Y. to a good sailing excursion,          a week on a yacht voyage   I told him to call on you, if possible   & he will if he can work it   My brother & sister here are well as usual   Eddy the same    Helen, if you see Miss Hillard tell her I rec'd her letter & thank her for it   I have not felt to write to her, or any one but my sisters, about mother's death   the great dark cloud of my life   the only staggering, staying blow & trouble I have had   but unspeakable   my physical sickness, bad as it is, is nothing to it    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01716.html," Walt Whitman to Thomas O'Kane ,","Sep 13, 1873",0.680674554604,"  Sept. 13, 1873                               Tho's O'Kane           Dear Sir,        I have rec'd your letter of the 12th. I agree to allow you better than half off,          namely you to acc't to me at $1.40 cts a copy on the bound Leaves of Grass          (which retails at $3)   and at 30 cts each for As a strong bird, (which retails at 75 cts.)        I will be very happy to see you, at any time. I am stopping at 322 Stevens st. Camden,          (cross by Phil. ferry from foot of Market st.   or Camden depot from N. Y.)        If you are willing to go into selling my books, I think you ought to have some of the little          30 cts brochure ""After All not to Create Only"" published by Roberts Bros. Boston.        I do not of course expect the sale could any how be a rushing one   but           "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00423.html," Walt Whitman to Daniel G. Gillette ,","Sep 26, 1873",0.68244254046,"  Camden, N.J.           September 26.                  Dear Sir,        I am delighted to please you in so trifling a matter as signing the pictures for your   and my   English friends   (substituting portraits I like better, instead of those          you sent, which I don't like   though they are fine bits of work.) . . .         Walt Whitman        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/prc.00029.html," Walt Whitman to Charles W. Eldridge ,","Sep 29, 1873",0.682850537196,"  431 Stevens st. cor. West st. Camden, N.J.           Sept. 29.                  Dear Charley,        I enclose the money for Walter Godey. Please go down & see how things are going on   & pay him. Please write me at once, as I shall want to hear if the money comes safe.        Don't be alarmed   but I am worse to-day   having a bad spell   a succession of those blurs I used to complain of, only far more intense          & persistent   it is now ½ past 3, & I have had a succession of them all day   still I am not dismayed   still think I shall get well   We are moving into the new house to-day.         Walt Whitman        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00425.html," Walt Whitman to Charles W. Eldridge ,","Oct 3, 1873",0.683394532844,"   The bad spells in my head continued at short intervals all through Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday.          Today there is a sulking sort of lull   have not had any actual blurs, but all the while          ready to have them, and pretty sick and sore and bad, especially in head, confusing me,          and affecting my eyes. I have rewritten my Will, with some slight changes and additions,          and placed it in the pocket of my trunk here.   � Ate my breakfast like a man this morning. I don't go out any.        Have been reading Dr. Adam's speech before the Evangelical Alliance in today's ""Tribune."" My eyes gave out before through.        . . . Charley, I think I fully appreciate my situation and the possibilities and contingencies   and honestly think yet I shall come round   that this is a pretty bad flurry, but one which will pass over. . . .        . . . We like the new house.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00321.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Oct 8, 1873",0.684074527404,"  Wednesday afternoon ½ past 3                 Am still about the same, pretty feeble, but no worse   no decidedly bad spells          the last three days   Consider myself much relieved   do not go out any   expect to be around next week   shall write Friday     W W        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/hsp.00009.html," Walt Whitman to Charles W. Eldridge ,","Oct 10, 1873",0.684346525228,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. J.            Friday 3 p. m.                  Dear friend,        I suppose you got my postal card. I am still about the same as then   or, if any different,          it is on the side of relief & improvement   I have the feeling to go out & try to get around   have better spirits than I could expect   but on trial, the least exertion confuses my head,          & overcomes me. But I am sitting here at present in my room, comparatively comfortable   & feel every hope that I shall be able to give better account of myself next week.          I am still clear of the pronounced bad spells of seven or eight days ago   a great gain & let-up. The weather here is fine.         Walt Whitman        Isn't that Evangelical Alliance a pretty kettle of fish? I read the Tribune through every day.          "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00322.html," Walt Whitman to Charles W. Eldridge ,","Oct 13, 1873",0.684754521964,"  Camden,           Oct. 13½ past 1, p.m.                    My dear friend        I am having quite a good spell to-day, (if it only lasts)   I wish you,          in conjunction with Peter Doyle, would go over to my room at Dr. White's,          & unlock the big trunk, (the one that is strapped) and take out        My gray suit, coat, vest, & I think there are two pairs of pants, both alike.        My black overcoat, quite heavy   it is the one in the trunk    Black felt hat, (there are two black hats, this is the lightest,          most flexible one   not the big fellow.)        The pair of old buckskin gloves, with sheepskin cuffs and do them up in a bundle   I think you can get three or four large sheets of very strong brown paper for wrapper,          tied securely with very strong cord   direct plainly to me, 431 Stevens st. cor.          West, here   put duplicate directions on   & send by Adams express   I write to-day          to Peter Doyle, same request as this, and asking him to meet you at Milburn's bet 3½ and 4, this afternoon   if not to-day, to-morrow, (or next day, or next still)          will do just as well, as I am in no particular hurry. Pete put the things in the trunk for me,          & will know about them. Then lock & strap the trunk again, & return key to me.          There are two locks, both of which this key unlocks.        I rec'd your good letter yesterday. I will write promptly if there is any marked change          in my condition. I rec'd a letter from Walter Godey, Saturday, & wrote to him yesterday.         Walt Whitman        After the bundle is dispatched to express office, write me a line   (As I have said, I am in no particular hurry   use your convenience)    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00323.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Oct 21, 1873",0.68584251326,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N.J.           Oct. 21.                            Am getting along favorably now   strength more enduring   am still very lame, but decidedly doing well generally     W. W.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.01720.html, Walt Whitman to Henry M. Alden,"Nov 0, 1873",0.68720250238,"   Please find herewith another poem I have written, the ""Prayer of Columbus,"" which I offer for the magazine.          If accepted send me word here, & a proof when ready   otherwise, please return me the MS.          My price is $60   same reservation as before & same obligation on my part    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/duk.00667.html," Walt Whitman to Henry M. Alden ,","Nov 2, 1873",0.687474500204,"  431 Stevens st. cor West Camden, N. Jersey.           Nov. 2, 1873.                  Editor Harper's Magazine, Dear Sir,        I offer the ""Song of the Redwood Tree,"" herewith, for your consideration          for the Magazine. The price is $100. If accepted send me a proof here when put in type.          If not available would you do me the favor to return the MS. by mail without delay?         Walt Whitman.        I reserve the right to print the piece in future book.          "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00429.html," Walt Whitman to Doctor and Mrs. Bielby ,","Nov 4, 1873",0.687746498028,"  431 Stevens st. cor. West. Camden,           N. Jersey,           Nov. 4, '73                        Dear Mrs. Bielby, & Dear Doctor,        I read the letter of Oct. 29, (full of good kindliness & sympathy   My general physique still          [ke]eps up, the battle with my [se]rious special cerebral ailment   & I think the physique          will yet carry the day   & that I shall come back to Washington, & see you all again   though my case is very fluctuating & tantalizing. Doctor, should you come Philadelphiaward, don't          fail to come over (by ferry foot of Market st.) to see me. It is not more than ten minutes journey in          Camden   & it will do me good. It is not more than half a mile on the Camden side   When          I return to Washington we three must get better acquainted.  Walt Whitman        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/duk.00668.html," Walt Whitman to Trübner & Company ,","Dec 27, 1873",0.694954440364,"  431 Stevens st. Camden, New Jersey. U. S. America.                    Messrs. Trübner & Company,           Dear Sirs,        Please make out acc't of sales of my books, Leaves of Grass &c. for the closing year, & remit me am't due, by mail here, by draft payable to my order.          Respectfully, &c.         Walt Whitman                   Dec. 27, 1873.          "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00426.html," Walt Whitman to Charles W. Eldridge ,","Dec 29, 1873",0.695226438188,"  431 Stevens St. cor. West. Camden, N.             J.           Dec. 29.                        Dear Charley,        I am getting along favorably   looking on the sunny side of the case, I am         probably better now than at any time since I was paralyzed   (though bad enough         yet.) My improvement is not much in the head troubles, & hardly any in my left         leg, but very perceptible in my strength & vim         generally   &         my confidence remains (still unaffected in the main, by all the tediousness of hope         deferred again & again) that, for all I am in the woods yet, I           shall emerge & see light again. It was to           Harpers I sold at handsome prices my pieces   (I sent a second one         which, like the first, they took, at my own price at once & sent me the         money)   They are in type, and I have read the proofs. So they are off my mind.         One is called ""Song of the Redwood tree,"" (California) & one the ""Prayer of         Columbus""   When they will appear I don't know, but suppose soon   take         this to Nelly.  Nelly, my dear, I received your welcome letter last evening. I am waiting for the         photos of my St. Louis Nieces to be returned from an old grand-aunt of mine (92         years old), mother's mother's sister, who wanted to see them in N.Y., & then I will         send them to you. I spent Christmas alone here, as my brother and sister had gone         down for three days on a visit to Delaware   I am in good heart. We shall yet         meet, Nelly dear.   Walt        I send a P.O. Order for $30. for Godey   I sent him $20 on the 23rd.          "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/pml.00041.html," Walt Whitman to Abby H. and Helen Price ,","Jan 11, 1874",0.696994424045,"  431 Stevens st. cor West, Camden, N. Jersey,           Sunday afternoon   4½                             Dear Abby, & Dear Helen, not forgetting Emmy, & all        As I am sitting here alone in the parlor, the sun near setting pleasantly & brightly,          (though cold to-day,) I just think that I ought to write you, even if but a line   that I am neglecting you   that perhaps you will be glad enough to hear from me. Well,          I am still here   still alive, after quite a many pretty hard pulls & pressures   maintain pretty good spirits   which would be, quite          first-rate & good   but every day          & every night comes the thought of my mother   I am not despondent or blue, nor disposed          to be any more ennuyeed than ever   but that thought remains to temper the rest of my life.        I am probably improving, though very slowly   go out a little most every day   go over to Philadelphia   get along pretty well in the cars & crossing the ferry.          (The car fellows & ferrymen are very kind & helpful   almost all know me, I suppose instinctively)   appetite fair   rest at night tolerable   general strength better than at any time   (it is now just a year since I was paralyzed.) Can't use my left leg yet with any freedom   bad spells in the head too frequent yet   then, with all those, I am certainly encouraged          to believe I am on the gain. (But I am not out of the woods yet.) I write some   (must occupy my mind.) I am writing some pieces in the Weekly Graphic   my reminiscences          of war times   first number appears in Weekly Graphic of Jan. 24   three or four others to follow    We are in the new house my brother has built   very nice. I find myself verylonesome here, for all social & emotional consolation   (Man cannot live on bread alone   can he?)   I want to come & see you   must do so before long   want to pay a moderate board,          (same as I do here,) if convenient for you to have me   Shall not come on any other condition   Well, Abby, I have just skurried rapidly over the sheet,          & will send it to you just as it is, with love.         Walt Whitman        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00324.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Jan 16, 1874",0.697674418605,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey,           7½ Friday evening.                             Dear Nelly,        Your letter came with the sad news of good Mr. Dille's death   I had seen it in the paper   I have thought much of it,          through the interesting account you gave   Indeed death has been much in my quiet thoughts & musings now for many months.        Nelly, there is nothing very new to write you   I have not been so well the past week   but feel better this evening. I still have spells of great distress in the head   though they pass over   Walking no better   but          general strength seems to steadily though very slowly improve    I am writing some war memoranda in the Weekly N. Y. Graphic first number just out   ask Charley to get it for you   In my next   anent of Bull Run   I mention Mrs. Johnson & her sister, (though not by name)   will be out next Thursday    Nelly, I am scratching this off at the Mercantile Library in 10th st. Philadelphia (though I date          home in Camden) & will have to close to get it in the box in time for the carrier.                 Love to you, dear, dear Nelly            Walt.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00326.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Feb 3, 1874",0.700122399021,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey,           Tuesday noon, Feb. 3.                             Dear Nelly,        I sent you the Weekly Graphic No. 2 yesterday   wish you to take an opportunity, when convenient,          & loan it to those two dear ladies, Mrs. Johnson & her sister mentioned in my article   & please give them my best remembrances. Dear Nelly, how are you getting along, this winter?   We have just had a snow storm here   cold & while, as I look out, and the sleigh-bells          occasionally jingling by   I am sitting here alone in the parlor by the heater,          as I write. I am alone most of the time, (to all intents & purposes.)        I feel that I am better, in the main   yet still have daily & nightly bad spells in the head,          & my leg most of the time disabled as ever. In fact not much different from the same old story   (yet certainly a good streak, or vein, of encouragement, & feeling of encouragement   maintaining itself   accumulating   never more than temporarily leaving me.)          I even begin to think about coming back to Washington & trying it again.        Nelly, I sent a P.O. check for $50 to Charley last Friday to pay my young man   haven't rec'd any word from Charley yet, up to this present writing   hope it came safe   may hear from him, this afternoon or tomorrow. Charley          is always so prompt in responding. I hear regularly from Peter Doyle   he is well & hearty, works hard for poor pay, on the Balt & Potomac RR.,          works nights a great deal. He writes me regularly every week. I have been          waiting ever since I wrote, to get the photos. of my nieces, (my dear sister Mat's girls,) returned from New York, & send them to you   but have not yet got them. Shall write for them. My ""song of the redwood tree,""          in last Harpers is copied a little, & abused & sneered at in the newspaper criticisms,          a good deal, (from what I glean)   of course, that last makes me feel very bad   I expect to have another piece in February Harpers   (but am not certain)   ""prayer of Columbus""   as I see it now I shouldn't wonder if I have unconsciously put a sort of biographical dash in it   Nelly dear, write oftener   put in all the gossip & items that will be next best to seeing you   do you see Dr. Drinkard   I sent Garaphelia Howard a paper, the Graphic that has my picture   how is she? Is she married? Give her my love   Poor, good Mr. Dille   yet amid all its sombreness & terror how blessed to die ""by touch ethereal,""          painless, instantaneous   Nelly, death has become to me a familiar thing   Yet, as I sit here writing,          I do not feel a particle less of life in me, than ever.                 God bless, you, dear, dear Nelly.         Walt        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00327.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Feb 11, 1874",0.701210390317,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey,           Feb. 11, 4 p.m.                             Dear Nelly,        Your letter of yesterday came this morning. Yours of 5th came safe   Sunday night late,          (on returning from spending the evening, so you see I gad about some   ) I found it waiting for me, & read it all through. Both letters are welcome.          Thank you particularly for the slip from the Nation, which I had not seen nor heard of. Nelly, I looked some five or six weeks ago          for Mrs. Banfield's letter   & now day before yesterday a second hunt   but cannot find it,          & fear it has been destroyed or lost   I am distressed that I cannot find & return it,          as I know you think so much of your friend's letters   (Besides moving in this house          from the former one   I have twice hurriedly destroyed a large mass of letters          & MSS.   to be ready for what might happen)    I am indeed interested in what you write about Mrs. Huntington   it does not surprise me that she meets emergencies, &c. so splendidly & expands          to greater womanly beauty & development   I always thought it in her to do so   Nelly, when you next see her give her my love   I return Willie's picture   dear child   it has pleased me much   I held it a long time in my hand & thought of H street    Nelly, I think very highly everyway of little Harold's picture   it is, to begin with, one of the best photos ever taken, & it seems so beautiful,          & a real man-child   I liked it much, & have always kept it where I could see it.          (Nelly, did you wish me to return it? I have overlooked   or forgotten   any request to that effect in the letter sending it)    I send my love to Mrs. Brownell   also to Garry Howard when you see her   (what you say of her in your letter I fully endorse as my mature conviction   she is a good, tender girl   true as steel.) Nelly dear, I am guiltless of the cologne present   (don't know any thing about Peter Doyle, in this case)    Dear Nelly, I feel that you are   or have been   under the depressing influences of          Mr Dilles's and Mr. Townsend's deaths   If it were eligible you should come frequently & spend the days with me, to cheer you up   meantime take early opportunities to get a change of scene of surroundings   & often    It is very fine here, to-day   I have been hobbling out   plenty of snow on the          ground   but air, sun & sky delightful     Walt        nearly 5   It is near sundown, very fine, & I am going out   as I like to be on the river,            (on those strong boats crashing through the ice now plentiful on the Delaware)   I shall probably cross to Phil   & mail this letter thence.          "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00328.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Feb 23, 1874",0.702842377261,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey,           Monday,           Feb. 23   2½ p.m.                             Dear Nelly,        I write mostly to send the pictures   you needn't hurry at all about returning them   not that I have any thing special to write about. It has not been well with me now          for some ten days   not even as well as usual   Still I am up & around every day.          I suffer much with my head, & locomotion is more clumsy & paralyzed even than usual   But my inward feeling & faith are not seriously demoralized yet. We are having it warm          & bright & spring like here at present   very attractive out, but my head prevents me          going out with any good enjoyment of it. My nieces are well   the one with the hair a          la Chinois is California, (Jessie,) the younger   the other is Mannahatta   Jeff is still at St. Louis, full of work   both my brothers have plenty of noble, manly work,          & very remunerative. I have just heard from John Burroughs   he is full of house     Walt        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00329.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Mar 3, 1874",0.703930368557,"  Camden, N.J.           March 3.                            Yours just rec'd   welcomed, late bad spell seems to have mainly passed over   am better to-day     W W        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/pml.00042.html," Walt Whitman to Abby H. Price ,","Mar 3, 1874",0.703930368557,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden N. Jersey,           March 3.                             Dear friend Abby, (& Dear friends all)        The letter of the 28th reached me yesterday after going wrong and was truly welcome.          (I suppose you rec'd my postal card acknowledging your previous one, briefly, & saying I should prefer the upper room.)          Since then I have had another bad spell   has lasted some fifteen days   head, legs,          gastric region, all bad   but am to-day feeling decidedly better. I shall quite          certainly come on   cannot now [pla]n the time, but will write before   & take up my quarters a while with you, as it seems to be agreeable, & the moderate sum          you mention I should pay thankfully   Though badly disabled, I am perfectly able          to take care of myself, & my sister says I am no trouble   I am sure we would all get along well together    I have just rec'd a letter from Mrs. O'Connor, from Washington, today. Her daughter,          (just 16,) is not well, has had a form of measles, a second attack, quite severe,          & is otherwise ailing, but I think will probably come out of it all, & grow stronger.          I was glad to hear about your dear grandchildren   and about our friends          Mrs. Davis & Mrs. Rein   I am alone, in the house to-day, (except Eddy)   as my sister has gone out          to spend the day, & my brother has gone to Easton, about his work. My brother Jeff,          at St. Louis, is well   his girls are growing finely.        I am sitting here in the parlor   it is about 11½   the sun has just come out, after a cloudy          half-rainy morning   is mild & warm   I go out for about an hour generally about noon,          with my cane, (& accompanied by my little yellow & white dog, a most faithful affectionate          companion)   frequently take a ride in the cars, or across in the boat   the men quite all know me, & are very kind.         Walt Whitman        Abby   mind the address   your last letter went wrong   had the wrong state    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00330.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Mar 8, 1874",0.704610363117,"  431 Stevens st. / cor West. / Camden, / N. Jersey.           Sunday, noon.                             Dear Nelly,        I must first tell you what will please you best, namely that I [am] feeling decidedly better          than usual this morning   I have spent an hour in the bath room, (quite my regular test,)          & come out not only without any diminution of strength or elasticity   but an increase   & with a visit or descending upon me like of a long-absent feeling of physical ease          & unconsciousness, which I will welcome as a precursor, even if [it] soon passes over          (as it doubtless will)   but hope for return. For I suppose you know that my condition          is very tantalizing in its fluctuations   Like today as I write   now the sun is out bright enough   & fifteen minutes since, I noticed from the window quite a flurry of snow   & cloudy   At any rate I am feeling again to-day one of the glimpses I had or was beginning to have          last May, before mother died   am under its influence & benefit to-day   & you shall have the good of it, Nelly dear   as far as this note can give.        Poor, poor, Ada Clare   I have been inexpressibly shocked by the horrible & sudden close          of her gay, easy, sunny free, loose, but not ungood life   I suppose you have seen about it,          but I cut the enclosed from the Herald in case you have not    Nelly, I rec'd your letter   I send W. Graphics of 21st & 28th as you request   The W. G. of 7th March is my last no.   did you get it?   I rec'd Charley's letter   Love to you & all   I feel to-day as though we shall yet be together again & have better times than ever, Nelly dear.         Walt        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00331.html," Postcard from Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Mar 9, 1874",0.704746362029,"  Camden,           March 9. 5 p.m.                            Yours rec'd last night. The let up & somewhat favorable condition mentioned in my letter          of Sunday still continues. Have not the slightest idea of hastening to W[ashington]   Shan't come till I get good & ready. Continue to write often. Wish Ch. to write me all news, & oftener.         W.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00332.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Mar 22, 1874",0.706514347885,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey,           Sunday, March 22, after 4, p.m.                             Dearest Nelly,        I will just write you a word (for I feel to.) I am feeling well enough to be hopeful   Whether it is because I am hopeful   or whether the precursor of health yet, after all   tedious as it is a-coming   this deponent cannot swear   but we will think it the latter.          I have had a bad week since I wrote you   feel more comfortable to-day. Saw the doctor (Grier)         day before yesterday   he made a careful ausculation of my heart   pronounced it all right there   (I have been suffering considerable pain & oppression on left side)   He still thinks I will recover   says he is not disposed to recommend galvanism, (though the electric business is his specialty)   says he is sure the main trouble is the cerebral anæmia   cure, great care, good surroundings,          time & hygiene   arrives, in fact, at the same conclusions as Dr. Drinkard   (though an entirely different man from Dr. D., a great talker, & very demonstrative)    Nelly, you needn't send the photos of my nieces back yet. Keep them a while yet.        Nelly, your last letter is very blue, mainly about political & public degradation   Summer's death & inferior men &c. being rampant &c   I look on all such states of things          exactly as I look on a cloudy & evil state of weather, or a fog, or long sulk meteorological   it is a natural result of things, a growth of something deeper, has its uses,          & will hasten to exhaust itself, & yield to something better     Walt.        Thanks for your letter of 20th   give my love to Mrs. Brownell    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00333.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Mar 23, 1874",0.706650346797,"  Camden,           Noon   March 23.                            It will be very easy to come here   get out at West Philadelphia & come down in Market st.          horse cars to ferry, foot of Market st   cross to Camden, it is only 1/3d of a mile from ferry.          Send me word a day ahead & I will meet you at West Philadelphia. We have plenty of room.          Come whenever convenient. You will find me much better   to-day I feel like getting well,          (& confidently expect to)   wish you were here to-day   'twould be most like old times     W W        Your letter & paper just rec'd    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00334.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Apr 10, 1874",0.709098327213,"  431 Stevens Camden, N. Jersey.           April 10. 12 M.                            Both letters just received. I will try to write to the A[shton]s. I deeply sympathize.        Last week has not been so encouraging with me   but am about as usual as I write to-day.         W.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00335.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Apr 17, 1874",0.710050319597,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey.           April 17.                            Condition still hopeful, & (though tedious as ever, & with relapses & bad spells,) still seem decidedly          to gain more than lose   I have written to the As. Am quite comfortable to-day.          J B was here Saturday & Sunday.         W W        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00336.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Apr 21, 1874",0.710594315245,"  431 Stevens st. Camden,           April 21. 11 a.m.                            Friday's letter rec'd   also that of Sunday   also papers   Graphic this morning   I feel pretty fair to-day considering   Keep on about same   (cloudy & sunshine)   Rain here too past four days, but I go out   clear to-day   I get or see N.Y. and Phil.          papers nearly all, & the Wash. Chronicle & the Capital   Write me how new train makes out   Do you go through to Balt only   or further? Am glad Buck is your conductor    Your old         Walt        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00337.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Apr 24, 1874",0.711002311982,"  431 Stevens st. / cor West. / Camden, N.J.           April 24   12 noon                            Yours of 23d just rec'd   Nothing new or different with me. Come   When you once find the way          you'll discover its very easy   A bright pleasant forenoon here at last. Am going out now.         W W        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00338.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","May 1, 1874",0.711954304366,"  431 Stevens st. / cor West. / Camden, / N. Jersey.           May 1. 3 p.m.                             Dear Nelly,        I will write you just a line   it is still the same with me   the same strange alternations   not perhaps quite as well, of late, (the last ten or twelve days)   & yet I dont abandon          my anchorage of heart & hope   dont feel to, which is a main thing with me   I have a good deal of pain, more or less steady, in my left side   in addition          to the bad spells in the head   To-day has been pleasant, & I was out hobbling around          from 10 to 12   probably overdid matters   as I came back sick & have been so since   (though not enough to prevent me from eating some nice stewed oysters in moderation          for my dinner, a half hour since)    So dont be needlessly apprehensive, Nelly dear   for I shall get better, & we will meet yet    When you write tell me about my dear Mr & Mrs. Ashton   I wrote them a line off-hand,          which I suppose they rec'd. Tell me all the news   tell me about Charles Eldridge   & all my other friends.        With love            Walt        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00339.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","May 1, 1874",0.711954304366,"  431 Stevens st. Camden, N.J.           May 6.                            Yours rec'd, & welcomed. Have been to the doctor's to-day   troubles of breast & left side getting steadier & more severe   in fact in addition to other troubles ugly gastric & catarrhal ones   Am still out & around some, however, & shan't give up yet    May 7   2 p.m. Nothing new or different   have had a long good call from a friend          from Minnesota this forenoon   & a letter & papers from Denmark     W. W.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00340.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","May 8, 1874",0.71290629675,"  431 Stevens st. Camden, N. Jersey           May 8   noon                               Every thing pretty much the same. Rather a bad week with me   no improvement   great distress in head          & left side, at intervals   cannot write much to-day   Will do better next time     W W        Your letter & paper came. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00341.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","May 15, 1874",0.713858289134,"                     431 Stevens st. Camden, N. Jersey.           Friday, May 15.                            Yours of last Sunday rec'd   paper also   Pretty bad spells of last week have let-up this morning   feel more comfortable than usual to-day   I don't get discouraged   & you mustn't either     W W        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00342.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","May 15, 1874",0.713858289134,"  431 Stevens                st.                             / cor West / Camden, /                N.                             Jersey. Friday, May 15.                   Dear Nelly,        I have had a succession of bad spells, (& pretty close together) since I wrote         the encouraging lines, some two or three weeks ago   indeed for a month now, in addition to other troubles, a pronounced         pain & distress in left side, growing intenser & quite extended   often         coming on at night, waking me up, & keeping me from sleep all night         afterward   But this morning as I write, (9 o'clock after breakfast   fish,         Graham bread, tea, my appetite, though modified, by no means lost)   I feel         quite peert, in good spirits, free from any marked         distress   & if you were to come in this minute, (than which, dear Nelly, I         can think of no blesseder God-send,) you would say I appear in face, flesh, color,         expression, &c. just the same Walt as of yore   Will         this good turn & let-up of today (yesterday morning at this time I felt like         death   & thought of it   ) be followed by other relapses?         Probably   for so it has been now for nearly a year. And yet each time I cannot         help fancying that now I am going to recuperate    As I write, sitting here in the parlor alone by the window, it is very         pleasant   soothing   it is a sweet balmy, not hot morning   my         sister's sister, from Norwich, Conn. is here on a         visit, with her little 8 months old babe-boy   She is walking in the other         room, singing it to sleep, in her arms   she has a fine contralto voice, &         is singing beautifully, unconsciously   it does me good too     Walt        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/duk.00669.html," Walt Whitman to William Stansberry ,","May 20, 1874",0.714538283694,"  May 20, '74                               Dear Wm. Stansberry,        I will just write you a few lines off-hand. Your letter of May 14 has come to hand to-day, reminding me of your being in Armory Square          Hospital & of my visits there, & meeting you, in '65.          Your writing, or something it has started, strangely, deeply touches me. It takes me back          to the scenes of ten years ago, in the war, the hospitals of Washington, the many wounded          bro't up after the battles, and the never-to-be told sights of suffering & death. To think          that the little gift & word of kindness, should be remembered by you so long   & that the kiss          I gave you amid those scenes, should be treasured up, & as it were sent back to me after many years!          Dear Comrade   you do me good, by your loving wishes & feelings to me in your letters.        I send you my love, & to your dear children & wife the same. As I write, you seem very dear to me too,          like some young brother, who has been lost, but now found. Whether we shall ever meet each other          is doubtful   probably we never will   but I feel that we should both be happy, if we could be together   (I find there are some that it is just comfort enough to be together, almost without any thing else)    I remain about the same in my sickness. I sleep & eat pretty well   go about same, look stout & red,          (though looking now very old & gray, but that is nothing new)   weigh 185 now   am badly lamed          in my left leg, & have bad spells, occasionally days, of feebleness, distress in head, &c.          I think I shall get well yet, but may not. Have been laid up here a year doing nothing,          except a little writing. As far as room, food, care, &c. are concerned, I am well situated here   but very lonesome   have no near friends, (in the deepest sense) here at hand   my mother died          here a year ago   a sorrow from which I have never entirely recovered, & likely never shall   she was an unusually noble, cheerful woman   very proud-spirited & generous   am poor,          (yet with a little income, & means, just enough to pay my way, with strict economy,          to be independent of want)    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00343.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","May 29, 1874",0.715762273902,"                       431 Stevens st. Camden, N. Jersey,           May 29                            Rec'd your welcome letter this morning. Much the same with me as when I last wrote   far from well, with frequent alternations   but up & around every day.         W        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00302.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Jun 10, 1874",0.717394260846,"  431 Stevens st. / cor West. / Camden, N. Jersey.           June 10   11 a. m.                             Dear Nelly,        Your letter has reached me this morning   &, as always, is welcome   I shall not go on to Boston   am not well enough          (& the hot spell besides)   but shall send the piece I have composed          for the occasion   a ten or fifteen minute piece I call the ""Song of the Universal""   to be read by proxy in its place in the programme, just the same as though I were there.          I will next week send it you in print    I am only reconciled to Charles Eldridge's not coming to see me Decoration Day, by taking it          for granted that he will consequently feel bound to visit me without fail before long   Come, Charley, by all means   It will do me good    Nelly, John Burroughs has had a terrible & sudden sorrow befall him   the sudden insanity & death          of his young nephew, his dead sister's son, (he visited me here during the past winter) Chancy Burroughs, at Brooklyn two weeks since   Abruptly, mysteriously, from apparent health & strength he became          a raging maniac & died in three days   & J. B. took up the poor young man's corpse & buried him          by his mother's side, there in the mountains of Delaware County    If I remember right the picture in the gilt frame is the one with the hand up at the right side of the head   so? If so, I have some of them, & will give Mrs. Johnson one with the greatest pleasure   (it is one of          Brady's photos)   I wish you to give my best respects & love to Mrs. J. and sister   Also to Garry Howard,          Mrs. Huntington, Mrs. Brownell & in fact to ""all inquiring friends""    I still maintain the ""great expectations"" I have before mentioned   the severe gastric affection,          trouble in side & breast, &c still assert themselves at times   dyspepsia, from 17 months inaction   but upon the whole not so severely   & I think very decidedly gradually growing less   The worst is my singular alternations, fluctuations. The heat here too is & has been extreme   but I am standing it well, so far   to-day as I sit here writing, a fair breeze blowing in    Peter Doyle has ten days since paid me a short visit of a couple of days   the dear, dear boy   & what good it did me!   (Unfortunately it was, however,          at a time when I was feeling almost at my worst.) Yesterday George Bacon came, bringing a friend   & we had a capital good hour & a half   talked Spiritualism   I enjoyed it though             Love to you, Nelly dear.         Walt Whitman        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00345.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Jun 10, 1874",0.717394260846,"                       431 Stevens st. Camden, N. Jersey.           June 10.                            Your letter & paper came to-day. Am standing the extreme hot weather very well indeed so far   am about as usual, (& better than when you saw me)     W W        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00346.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Jun 12, 1874",0.71766625867,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey.           June 12   5½ p.m.                            All about the same   I am standing the hot weather well   shall not go on to Boston, to the College.         W. W.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02326.html," Walt Whitman to John Swinton ,","Jun 24, 1874",0.719298245614,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey.           June 24.                            Your good letter rec'd this morning. Come & see me whenever you can. It is very easy   6 or 8          trains fro & to N. Y. every day & night. Come either by boat to Amboy, & so directly here to          Camden depot, (only 60 rods from this house,) or from Jersey City to West Philadelphia depot,          & so down Market st. by horse cars to Camden ferry at foot of it. I am about the same.          Jeff is here with me (from St. Louis) for a couple of days.         W. W.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00347.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Jun 26, 1874",0.719570243438,"                       431 Stevens st. Camden, N. Jersey.           June 26.                            Have been quite sick all the week   but as I write (5½ p m) somewhat easier.         W.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00348.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Jul 3, 1874",0.720522235822,"                       431 Stevens st. Camden, N.J. Jersey           July 3   noon                               Past week nearly same as heretofore with me   much distress in head & side   rec'd card last Monday   will write more fully next time     W        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00349.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Jul 17, 1874",0.72242622059,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N.J.           Friday noon           July 17.                            Your last rec'd. As I write am quite comfortable   but have been pretty sick the past week, by spells.         W W        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00350.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Jul 31, 1874",0.724330205358,"  431 Stevens st. Camden, N. Jersey           July 31.                            Though some bad spells still, things decidedly more favorable in my condition. I shall get up yet.         W        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00353.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Aug 5, 1874",0.725010199918,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey.           Aug 5.                             Dear Nelly,        Your good letter came all right   it is pretty much ""the same subject continued""   with my health & feelings   very grave depressions, alternated with more favorable spells    To-day, as I write, I am in good spirits & comparatively comfortable   after a painful attack last night   So it goes   What will be the finale remains to be seen.        I await your further letters with some curiosity   (for strange as it may seem, men have that weakness as well          as your sect)   I have to-day dispatched dear Mrs. Johnson's          picture by mail   (It is intended to be put in a square gray or white mat with oval top,          & then in a plain black walnut rustic square frame, with thin strip of gilt inside,          & good plate glass)   I shall look for Charles Eldridge    My sister is spending a few weeks at Atlantic City   I am here, (declining several invitations) muchly but pleasantly,          alone   We have a fine old Irish woman, (an old maid, not so very old either) who cooks nicely & runs the domestic          machinery, for brothers George & Eddy, & self   She little knows how much good she does me with her great splendid          coarse face & stout figure & warm-blooded & quaint & simple & affectionate ways    Write soon, Nelly dear            Walt.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00351.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Aug 7, 1874",0.725282197742,"  431 Stevens st. Camden, N.J.           Aug. 7.                            All about the same   write to me about Tasistro in your next   Am here partially alone   folks gone to Atlantic city   I prefer staying here   wish you was here with me   head aching badly to-day   in good spirits though     W. W.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00354.html," Walt Whitman to John and Ursula Burroughs ,","Aug 18, 1874",0.726778185775,"  431 Stevens st. / cor West. / Camden, / N. Jersey.           Aug. 18.                             Dear John & 'Sula Burroughs,        The interval of some weeks, (or is it months?) since I last wrote you has passed on, bringing no decided change          in my condition   in my bad spells, (& I have them often enough) I 'most think the end is not far off   but I get over them & my natural buoyancy reässerts itself   (& in the main keeps control of the helm)   though to a man of my lazy-activity this whole condition & sickness of mine is very wearing    To-day I am feeling very comfortable, sitting here in the front room by the open window writing this   eat this morning quite a respectable breakfast, beefsteak, bread, & tea   & at about 3 shall make a light,          moderate bite of dinner   no supper   I find I get along best with one pretty fair-meal only,          & that I make breakfast   The gastric & dyspeptic trouble has been serious, & is perhaps so yet   pains in left side, distress in head, &c   the old story    John Swinton came down from N.Y. & spent Sunday with me   told me lots of N.Y. newspaper news,          &c.   it was a very welcome visit to me.        I was discharged from my clerkship on the last of June, by B. Wilson, the new Solicitor of the Treasury   (it is all right)   All questions of what I shall do are to me so subordinate to the question of whether         I shall soon or ever get well, (or partially well,) that I hardly entertain them seriously   I enclose you Tennyson's latest letter to me   also a slip Swinton gave me   Send them both back in your next letter   Eldridge is in Boston on his vacation   I expect a visit from him in about 12 days, on his way back   Best love to you both, & I shall be with you yet, I have no doubt.         Walt.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00352.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Aug 21, 1874",0.727186182511,"  431 Stevens st Camden, N. Jersey.           Aug 21.                            Your last, & paper, rec'd   have had a tolerably good week but nothing to brag of   middling comfortable to-day   very hot here to-day   tell your RR. chum          if he sees me in Phil. he must make himself known to me.         W. W.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00355.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Nov 23, 1874",0.739970080239,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey.           Nov. 23   2 p.m.                             Dear Nelly,        Your late letter reached me, enclosing the piece from the Academy.        I have been worse than usual for a week   very pronounced swimming spells & dizziness in the head,          with sometimes deathly faintness & great prostration   (twice I thought serious)   am sitting up to-day & yesterday   havn't been out   now this is the ninth day   continuous qualmishness & headache   doctor thinks however it is all substantially          a stomach & liver business   he comes every day   does not seem to be alarmed   I am taking mild powders of mercury for the liver   & drops composed of bromides          of potash & ammonia    There is death all around me here   Two yesterday of persons I know   I send you a piece by me          from the paper here   the young man alluded to was much like one of my most cherished soldier cases          in the Hospitals ten years since. He lived on the next block, & I was with him          a great deal   & at death.        Nelly, I just send you, (although one or two items confidential, sort o') Mrs. Price's last letter to me,          two days since   read it, & destroy it   I also send Mrs. Davis's, she (Mrs. P) sent me,          as you are interested in her    I shall get better, & shall come on to Washington yet   on a brief visit   Tell Charles Eldridge          I shall write to him this week   My brother & sister & Eddy here are well   My sister at Burlington,          Vt. was as usual at last acc'ts   also Jeff & his girls at St. Louis   As I write I am sitting here          in my big chair alone (alone muchly,) in the parlor by the window   It is a rainy darkish day here   the wind south & mild     Walt        If Pete Doyle comes up to see you, read him this letter   also give him the printed slip to read    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02348.html, Walt Whitman to Bethuel Smith,"Dec 0, 1874",0.740922072623,"  My dear friend,        Your letter has reached me here, & it is a real comfort to hear from Bethuel once more. Years have passed away          but I find there is something in the friendship formed amid sickness, or with the wounded in hospital          that comes up again fresh and living as ever and remains as if it cannot pass away. Bethuel, dear comrade,          I must write a few  how I should like to see you. I want to hear all about you, & how you are          getting along   all the particulars will be interesting   when I think of those old times in the hospital          & our being together, you seem to me like my own son.        I worked in Washington after the war   had a stroke of paralysis now two years since, was getting better,          then some serious troubles happened to me, & I fell back again   I have left Brooklyn & Washington for good   & am now laid up here   I am neither well enough to do any work, nor sick enough to give up   go out some          though lame, & keep a pretty good heart, hoping for better times. Bethuel, I enclose an envelope for you   dear boy, I want you to write me a good long letter   my best best love to you, & a happy new year    Mrs. Smith, I thank you for writing to me, it has done me good   I send my best respects & love to you   & my love          to the youngest son living with you. I will send some papers.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/prc.00030.html," Walt Whitman to Charles W. Eldridge ,","Dec 2, 1874",0.741194070447,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey,           Dec. 2   2 p.m.                  Dear friend,        The address I want you to send the Tax & Revenue books, reports, documents, or whatever to is                               To Paul Liptay             Care of Otto Behrens             140 Eighth avenue             New York City                            I wrote to Nelly about a week ago, stating my condition, & what a plight I have been in   & am partially yet   though slowly coming round to what I was just previous    The doctor still comes every day   rather a curious fellow   a great bully, vehement, loud words          & plenty of them (the very reverse of my valued Dr Drinkard)   &          yet I value what he says & does for me   He is inclined to think the seat of all my woe has been (what no one ever whispered before,) the liver,          acted upon largely also, perhaps almost primarily, thro[ugh] the emotional nature   at any rate he is decided          that the present botherations are absolutely liver troubles, & their radiations    Charley, I have had a sick, sick three weeks since you were here   havn't been out, except just          in front of the house in the sun, & only three times that   but don't be alarmed, my dear friend   the probabilities are, (in my opinion any how,) that I shall get partially well yet       "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/prc.00032.html," Walt Whitman to Frank and May Baker ,","Dec 2, 1874",0.741194070447,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, New Jersey.           Dec. 2   P.M.                  Frank and May Baker, Dear friends,        Your kind letters reached me this morning   it does me good to get such kind reminders   & to know I am still         so remembered & affectionately invited & asked for. I shall pay you the visit.        Last three weeks I have been extra sick   was taken with bad vertigo spells, vomiting, & fits of prostration   lasted for         several days, bad at intervals, and, though the worst seems to have past, am left weak & sort of qualmish, with headache.        It is now as I write about 1 P.M. & very fine   I have been out on the side walk in the sun, but had to get back soon   doctor comes every day   thinks it mainly a serious affection of liver, (& stomach too), very         obstinate   thinks it (this trouble) does not proceed from brain, heart, lungs, kidneys   (those, according to him,          are all right)   thinks it indeed not improbable that my tedious paralysis, & all the cerebral business, &c. have         had their bases (reflexes, &c from emotional bases) in said liver trouble   I am much inclined         to think he has hit it   Am taking medicine   bromides of potash & ammonium   have been taking moderate calomel powders   sit up now all day   but havn't been out, (except to the front door, or stoop, like,) for nearly three weeks   Keep          good heart, & expect to yet get, not vigorously well, but comparatively well   Want to come on &         see you, & see the baby, & expect to do so   will send you word   (must first visit Mr. & Mrs. Nash, however, at Navy Yard,         as I said)   Frank, what did you see of the London Academy criticism? I only saw an extract in the Boston Courier, half a column    Love to you, dear friends   not forgetting the dear baby            Walt Whitman        Frank, I wish to be remembered to Arnold Johnson in the office   tell him I sent my love to him    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02347.html," Walt Whitman to Whitelaw Reid ,","Dec 5, 1874",0.741602067183,"  431 Stevens st. / cor West. / Camden, / N. Jersey,           Dec. 5.                               My dear Reid,        Hasn't this got vim enough   from your point of view, even as editor of          the paper   to make you print it in the Tribune?        I am still tediously invalided here   but have not at all given up the hope of getting out of the woods, & doing some work yet.        When you come to Philadelphia, try to come over & see me.         Walt Whitman        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyu.00005.html," Walt Whitman to Charles Eldridge ,","Dec 8, 1874",0.742010063919,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden,           N. Jersey.           Dec. 8.                            Yours rec'd this morning. Thanks for sending the books. Please duly send same address the Finance Rep't for 1874 when printed.         Glad to get the item about Symonds's book   shall look for it. I am better   still head wavering, & stomach qualmish, but fainter spells & at longer         intervals   am having to-day, & as I write, very tolerable conditions     W W        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00293.html," Walt Whitman to John Burroughs ,","Dec 11, 1874",0.742418060656,"  431 Stevens st. / cor West. / Camden, / N. Jersey.           Dec. 11   p.m.                             Dear John Burroughs,        I have had another severe spell the last five weeks   head troubles, & stomach troubles,          & liver troubles   the doctor thinks the latter the seat & basis this time of all, or nearly all   head-swimming, faintness, vomiting, &c   but for three or four days past have been easier   am up   didn't go out for three to four weeks, but am venturing out a little now   hope          & quite expect to get at least as well as I was before this spell    Eldridge has made me a call of two or three hours, (on his return from Boston to Wash'n)   Seems to be nothing very new among our friends at Wash'n   Marvin has written me twice   he has been reading your ""Notes,""          & is quite possessed with them   also ""Dem. Vistas""    I am writing very little   have a piece, a melange,          prose & verse, in the ""Christmas Graphic""   (comes out in a week or so,) in which I say a brief word about Emerson    To eke out my letter I send a scrap from paper about death of a young friend of mine   also another scrap   also another from London Academy, (which latter only please return when you write)    Best love to 'Sula   Merry Christmas   do you get in the new house?          Write me a good long letter   I wish I was with you       "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00433.html," Walt Whitman to the Editor of the New York Daily Graphic ,","Dec 16, 1874",0.743098055216,"  Camden, N.J.,           December 16.                 Your notes inviting me to write about Spiritualism reached me during a late severe spell of illness,          which will account for their not being answered at the time. I thank you for your courtesy,          but I am neither disposed nor able to write anything about this so-called Spiritualism.          (It seems to me nearly altogether a poor, cheap, crude humbug.)         Walt Whitman        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00356.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Jan 7, 1875",0.74609003128,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey,           Jan. 7.                            Am feeling better than during Nov. and first part of Dec   strength better than for a long time   rec'd the Springfield Rep[ublican] this morning   (is it from you or Ch[arley]?)   That ¶ in the T[ribune] was the most flourishing puff yet given me   & from them!   A leaden, heavy day here, with sulky rain          & some snow & sleet   I have to stay in, but am feeling comfortable.         WW        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00357.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Jan 11, 1875",0.746634026928,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey           Jan. 11.                            Card came this morning. Letter you speak of must have been destroyed, as I have          rec'd none   Rec'd letter from P[eter] D[oyle] this morning. Am still getting along favorably considering all things   Heard from J[ohn] B[urroughs] last week   all well. Had a letter from Dr. Drinkard     WW        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00436.html," Walt Whitman to Sampson , Low , & Company ,","Feb 1, 1875",0.74949000408,"  Camden, N.J.,           February 1, 1875                       [WW requests an accounting for the previous year.]    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00358.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Feb 5, 1875",0.750033999728,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey.           Feb. 5.                            About the same as at last writing   ups & downs. I want to come on to Wash'n yet   & shall do so, soon as able   Did you get a Camden paper? Yours came, & card, last Tuesday.         W W        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00430.html," Walt Whitman to John R. and Rebecca B. Johnston ,","Feb 9, 1875",0.750577995376,"  431 Stevens St. / Cor. West. / Camden / N. Jersey.           Feb. 9, 1875.                  My dear friends, John R. & Rebecca B. Johnston,        This then is the 28th anniversary of your marriage day.        God bless you both.  Walt Whitman.        I wonder if you either of you have any idea how the otherwise monotony of my Camden existence has been pleasantly rippled   how warm & bright those gleams to me   from the unvarying hospitality and sweet friendship of both of you   God bless you.           W.W.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00359.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Feb 12, 1875",0.750985992112,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey.           Feb. 12.                            All about as usual. Yours rec'd. The past week here the stormiest of winter   have kept in     W W        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00360.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Feb 19, 1875",0.751937984496,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey.           Feb. 19.                            Had another par[alytic] stroke Tuesday last   but not severe. This time, right side    Am now about as usual   Snow storm as I write, but I am going out, but not far     WW        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00361.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Feb 26, 1875",0.75288997688,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey.           Feb. 26.                            A bright day again here, after some ugly weather. Pete, a bad month past, with me, but might have been worse   Bad spells frequent   strength, however, pretty fair   Out a little every day or so. Spirits good.          Comfortable now as I write   Wish you was here   paper & card came all right     W. W.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/duk.00670.html," Walt Whitman to John and Ursula Burroughs ,","Mar 2, 1875",0.753433972528,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden N. Jersey. March 2.                             Dear John, & 'Sula,        This will show you that ""the lamp still holds out to burn""   though I have had a bad two months past   I have had another paralytic stroke, but it passed over, without any thing serious, (it is probable          I have had several slight strokes)   but I am feeling, as I write, about the same as is now usual for me   still entertain expectations    If practicable I shall bring out a Vol. the coming summer   I hope to pay you the visit yet   Did you get the paper          I sent with a report of Emerson's late lecture on Eloquence   of course interesting, from him, but nothing very stunning,          it seemed to me   I see that Conway is coming to America next autumn certain, to see things, travel, lecture, &c       John, [I] send you the last letter from a quondam correspondent & unseen rebel friend of mine,          away down in Alabama   He seems to me a good affectionate fellow, a sort of uncut gem   I have had five or six letters from him,          all primitive but good   What are you about?   & how are you & 'Sula getting along?         Walt Whitman        My brother & sister well   brother full of business    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/prc.00031.html," Walt Whitman to John Swinton ,","Mar 12, 1875",0.754793961648,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey.           March 12.                            Yours rec'd   Come by all means   nothing very new   bad spells continued, & then a let up   (pretty much the same old story)   Telegraph to me about coming     WW        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00362.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Mar 19, 1875",0.755745954032,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey.           March 19.                            Think I am getting round to my former state   (Still some bad spells)   go out when the weather permits   hope confidently for better times when the spring opens   card & paper came     WW        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00363.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Mar 26, 1875",0.756697946416,"  431 Stevens st.st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey.           March 26.                            Still around, much the same   ups & downs, (plenty of the latter)   Ah, Pete, if you [could] only come on to Phil.          & lay over, instead of Balt[imore]. Remembrances to Mr. & Mrs. N[ash] & Mrs. C.   card & papers came     WW        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00364.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Apr 16, 1875",0.759553923569,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey           April 16.                            Condition tolerable   I keep good heart yet   have no doubt I shall be able to come to Wash[ington]   but when, don't know now   John Bur[roughs] was here last night to see me, on his way to Wash[ington]   hope you are all right   do you like the berth?   papers, card, &c. rec'd   Can't you come on,          & get back to Balt[imore] in time?         WW        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00435.html," Walt Whitman to Reuben Farwell ,","Apr 21, 1875",0.760233918129,"   All goes on about the same   still unwell, but up   yours of March 5 rec'd and welcomed   O how I should like to see you,          every day, dear Mitch   my own dear boy and comrade of the war   the hospital   I have to sit here alone much of the time,          and think of those old times   very cold here, yet   this is the 21st April, and the ground is frozen here   I keep cheerful          spirits, and still hope to get around   Love to you, and to the wife and little girl   Write soon   Address, Camden, N. Jersey.                    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00365.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Apr 23, 1875",0.760505915953,"  431 Stevens st cor West. Camden, N. Jersey.           April 23.                            Here yet, & no particular change   Was out yesterday & over to Phil. by cars & ferry   but bad, very bad spell          all night   Eat my breakfast this morning, & here I am ab't the same as usual   So things go     WW        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/inu.00001.html," Walt Whitman to Edward Dowden ,","May 2, 1875",0.761729906161,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey, U. S. America May 2, 1875.                  Edward Dowden,  Dear friend,        Your kind letter of April 16 reach'd me yesterday   I find it full of animation & cheer, with items          of news, &c. interesting to me, & only hope to get letters from you oftener. In my condition they          are trebly welcome. My tedious prostration continues   primarily and mainly an obstinate & baffling         cerebral affection, on which have been superinduced grave lesions of the stomach & liver, (from the          enforced physical inaction of the last twenty-eight months)   Still I am up & dressed & around every day,         go out, walk a little, (as I am crippled, left leg, quite badly) but eke out a jaunt with the horse cars, &         the ferry boats on the noble river here, the Delaware   all quite handy   the solution of the problem of recovery,          (even partial) is more or less uncertain, but of course I like to proceed on the supposition or assumption         that I shall get better.        Yes, I shall, unless prevented, bring out a volume this summer, partly as my contribution to our National         Centennial. It is to be called ""Two Rivulets""   (i.e. two flowing chains of prose         and verse, emanating the real and ideal) it will embody much that I had previously written & that you know,         but about one third, as I guess, that is fresh. ""Leaves of Grass,"" proper, will remain         as it is identically   The new Vol. will have nearly or quite as much matter as L. of G. (It is a sort of omnibus,         in which I have packed all the belated ones, since the outset of the Leaves.)        As I was writing to John Burroughs to day, I have enclosed to him your letter of 16th. His address is, Esopus, Ulster Co. New York. He is there permanently, having built himself a         stone cottage in a beautiful spot on the banks of the Hudson, 60 miles north of New York City. He comes to see me   was         here, well, about three weeks ago. I heard from Tennyson last summer, had a good friendly letter from him. I have just had a long, capital & most kind letter from W. M. Rossetti. Thanks for the         Shakspere   the first & second chapters I have read thoroughly   they are very         live   I shall read it all & write to you   the Contemporary Review is rec'd   thanks            Walt Whitman        Thanks for Mr. Clifton's letter   best remembrances to Mrs. Dowden   not forgetting the dear little daughter & baby    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00437.html," Walt Whitman to John Burroughs ,","May 2, 1875",0.761729906161,"  431 Stevens St. cor. West, Camden, N. Jersey            May 2.                             Dear John Burroughs,        I send you a letter, &c. I rec'd from Dowden, as you are alluded to. I have written to Dowden, today, & sent it off   so I suppose he will send you the books alluded to. Mine have arrived   Dowden advances, expands, or rather penetrates   the first two Chapters of his Shakespere, which I have read thoroughly, are very fine   (I have underlined passages         on every page)    the Victor Hugo I have not yet read     . . . I am pretty strong yet, & go out   but head, stomach & liver, all in a bad way, & seems as if nothing could bring them round.         Have rec'd a long & good letter from Rossetti which I will show you when you come. How are you getting along? How is 'Sula? . . .         Walt        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00438.html," Walt Whitman to Robert Carter ,","May 7, 1875",0.762409900721,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey.           May 7, '75                        Robert Carter,         Dear Sir,        Thinking that possibly I might be itemised or briefly biographised in the Cyclopaedia I thought I would send you,          (or to Mr. Dana,) the accompanying sketch   some authentic statistics, (as I find I am beginning to be noted,          & they make sad work of it sometimes.)        Leaving of course the whole thing in your hands, I should like you to get the statistics, the fact-basis,          right   (& should you think proper can be further consulted here, or proof sent, &c.)   My book Leaves of Grass          as now printed, is in its permanent form   My other Vol. of equal size Two Rivulets, (i.e. of Real and Ideal)          will comprise all my other writings, Prose & Verse, & is now being put into type. I am still prostrated with          Cerebral & liver affection, but work occasionally.         Walt Whitman        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00367.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","May 7, 1875",0.762409900721,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey.           May 7.                            Nothing special to write about   condition much the same   Yours of last Sunday rec'd   bright here to-day but cool. Love to Mrs. & Mr. N[ash].         WW        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00368.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","May 14, 1875",0.763361893105,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey.           May 14.                            Nothing special to write about   I always get the papers, they come right   letters, cards, &c. the same   Wish I could be with you in Balt[imore] to-morrow to spend the day.         WW        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00369.html," Walt Whitman to Edmund Clarence Stedman ,","Jun 17, 1875",0.767985856113,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey.           June 17, '75.                    My dear Stedman,        I have rec'd your kind note, & am pleased that you remember me. I shall select some scrap of my MS. & send you soon.          The last fortnight I have had an extra spell of debility & head distress, but feel better to-day.        Should you come to Philadelphia come over here, (by ferry from foot of Market st. Phila., very accessible)          & see me, & have a chat. I am leisurely preparing a Volume, ""Two Rivulets,' (i.e. Real and Ideal) all sorts of things,          prose & (my) poetry. Won't be out though for five or six months. Pleasant in some respects here, for me   but pretty lonesome.         Walt Whitman        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00370.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Aug 20, 1875",0.776689786482,"  431 Stevens. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey.           Aug 20.                            All yours rec'd   Still here   Still about the same   sitting here by the open window   very bright & sunny, & pretty hot   (bad head to-day).         W. W.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00371.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Sep 4, 1875",0.778729770162,"  431 Stevens st. Camden N. Jersey           Sept. 4.                            Nothing new or different with me. Want to come on to Wash[ington] before long, for two or three days.         WW        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00372.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Oct 2, 1875",0.782537739698,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N.J.           Oct. 2.                            Have had just a slightly more encouraging week   though slightly   strength gets a little more reliable          (has been very poor,) will try to send you some definite word soon about coming     WW        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/prc.00045.html," Walt Whitman to John Burroughs ,","Oct 12, 1875",0.783897728818,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey,           Oct. 12                            Your good letter rec'd. I am no worse   can hardly say better, either, (though if any difference, it is that)   C. W. E[ldridge]         called to see me on his way back to Wash. & has written to me from there since. O'C[onnor] is well & flourishing.         I think of soon going to Wash. for a few days     W W.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00453.html," Walt Whitman to William Michael Rossetti ,","Oct 19, 1875",0.784849721202,"  431 Stevens St. / Camden, N. Jersey. / U.S. America           19 October 1875.                        My dear Mr. Rossetti,        Let me by this introduce to you an old and valued friend of mine, J. B. Marvin, who is making a short visit to London on business. Mr. Marvin is a New Englander, literary, democratic, has a family, and has a position in the Treasury at Washington. I still continue here, laid up, but working a very little. Best wishes, congratulations etc. on the marriage.         Kindest respects to Mrs. Rossetti. I have lately received a good kind letter from Tennyson.        Write soon and freely. I am pretty lonesome here.  Walt Whitman        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00374.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Nov 3, 1875",0.786889704882,"  431 Stevens st cor West Camden, N.J.           Nov. 3.                            All going on about same. I want to come on next Monday (8th inst) & stay a few days   Would like to stop at Mr. N[ash]'s.          (Will write so you will get particular word Saturday next)     WW        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00366.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Nov 9, 1875",0.787705698354,"  Tuesday, 9th Nov. 11 a.m.                  Dear Nelly,        I am in Washington, stopping at Mr. & Mrs. Nash's, L st. south east, Navy Yard   am middling well, for me   shall be in pretty sure up to 10 a.m. & from 2 to 3 p.m. Am so fixed that it is very convenient          for my friends to call   Love to you.         Walt W        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00373.html," Walt Whitman to John Burroughs ,","Dec 17, 1875",0.792873657011,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey.           Dec. 17                  Dear John Burroughs,        I have been back here two weeks & over   My Washington jaunt occupied some seventeen or eighteen days,          & was a very pleasant one for me   (started out with the idea of a two days visit only)   Am perhaps now lately          not so well, but not much different   the gravest trouble is the liver and stomachic business now   Still I keep          up about the same, (& get mad at myself for grunting)   Your letter of two days since rec'd.          Best love to 'Sula, & to Jenny Grant if there    My new edition is nearly ready   Two Vols   will give you early advice of their appearance   only 100 copies issued   Is the Winter Sunshine out? Eldridge call'd to see me on his return home two weeks since. Marvin has gone to England,          with a Treas[ury] squad. He has call'd on Mrs. Gilchrist. M. D. Conway called on me. Lord Houghton also.        We have great times in this house   a baby has arrived, a fine lusty little fellow, now five weeks old   (he has been named Walt)   just now though he is quite sick, but I opine will get along   The rest all very well, except that my sister,          the mother, is part of the time only middling. I hear young Walt raising his song, in the room overhead as          I conclude my letter    Love to you, as always, my friend            Walt.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00440.html," Walt Whitman to the Librarian of Congress ,","Dec 20, 1875",0.793281653747,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey.           Dec. 20, '75                  Librarian Congress:Dear Sir:        Please furnish me with Copyright for ""Two Rivulets,"" as per title enclosed. Is the $1 the right sum?                 Yours truly         Walt Whitman        If perfectly convenient   & you have a printed slip with Copyright laws, (latest) please enclose with document. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00441.html, Walt Whitman to Edward Dowden,"Jan 0, 1876",0.794777641779,"  431 Stevens St &c                        My dear friend,        Enclosed I send you a piece printed here to give a true statement of the situation   & which I should be          well satisfied to have printed in Britain. I ought to have written you before. I have read your ""Shakspere"" & ought to have thanked you for it. I find it full of vitality & suggestiveness, on themes that          might be supposed exhausted years ago   but are not at all exhausted.        As I write I am feeling pretty comfortable   much the same as for last two years   no worse.         John Burroughs was here with me last week. He is well.   �        M D Conway has called upon us. He is a good & intellectual man, but I don't think I either got hold of him,          nor he of me, at all. My friend, I must still put off for another letter some things I have had in my mind          for months to say to you. Your letters past   what John Burroughs told me   (and your Shakspere book)   have grafted you more on my good will & memory than you perhaps know. I write in haste.         Walt Whitman        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00452.html, Walt Whitman to an Unidentified,", 1, 1876",0.794913640691,"  431 Stevens Street Camden New Jersey / US America                       Yours rec'd   Many thanks   shall be happy to supply you with the Book   the best way is by mail   the          price is £2 sent me here by p. o. order   it is entirely safe and easy     Walt Whitman        Thanks for your offer of ""the Poetry of the Period""   I have not seen it    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/prc.00044.html, Walt Whitman to an Unidentified,", 1, 1876",0.794913640691,"  Camden, New Jersey           1876                            Your subscription for my Book is received   for which hearty thanks. Excuse temporary delay   the small          first edition being exhausted, & [another being in the] press. Your Volume [incomplete]        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00383.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Jan 15, 1876",0.796817625459,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden,           N. Jersey           Jan 15.                            Nothing very new or different. Was much relieved when I heard you was out of that smash up on the road.          John Burroughs is here on a visit   we have just had dinner   Cold & wintry here, but bright & clear   I go out some   your letter & paper came   am feeling quite comfortable     WW        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00384.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Jan 15, 1876",0.796817625459,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden,           N. Jersey.           JanJan 15.                            Glad to get your letter, this morning. Am about as at last writing   every thing more favorable than unfavorable.          John Burroughs is here on a visit. Cold & clear here, snow & sleighing   I am going out a little     WW        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00385.html," Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle ,","Jan 22, 1876",0.797769617843,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden,           N. Jersey.           Jan. 22.                            All is going on with me full as comfortably as I can expect. A dark, drizzly,          very slippery day here   Keeps me in. Your papers & letter rec'd.         WW        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02826.html," Walt Whitman to Whitelaw Reid ,","Feb 8, 1876",0.800081599347,"  private  Calculated to make from 2 1/3d to 2 2/3d columns, in the ordinary nonpareil, (or minion, is it?) you use for reading matter.        If convenient, when in type, send me a (revised) proof, which I will return by next mail.         Walt Whitman        431 Stevens st. | Camden, | N. Jersey.          "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00319.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Feb 29, 1876",0.802937576499,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden,           N. Jersey           Feb: 29.                             Dear Nelly:        About me, my ailments, no great difference. (A queer old doctor here   did I tell you?   sticks to it that,          although the trouble has taken the form of paralysis, & instigated far back, the basic & origin are of          stomachic nature   at any rate the derangement & suffering now          are mostly gastric & liver business   telling in distress of head)    I went over to PhilPhil: yesterday, & had a nice, good, I may almost say happy afternoon, with dear Mrs. Lesley,          Kate Hillard, & the two Miss Lesleys, daughters   us four, only, no men-critters but me   I was there some four hours,          filled with animated talk   we had dinner, very nice, a nice glass of wine   Mrs. L. a fine gentle, sweet-voiced,          handsome black-eyed New England woman, (of the Lyman family, daughter of Judge Lyman.) With Miss H[illard], though the first meeting, I got along capitally   found her a jolly, hearty girl   evidently seen life & folks, & read lots   she talked much about the London literati,          & the (I suppose I may say) personal friends of mine there, both men & women, nearly all of whom she knew well,          giving me, among the rest, descriptions of Personnel that were new & very interesting to me. She goes to Wash[ington]          to-morrow, to stay there (1734 I st.) a month   reads a series of twelve papers on English poets.        I made a short call on Hector Tyndale, 1021 Clinton st   he came down to see me, in the parlor   (I did not see Mrs. T.)   Hector did not seem much different, physically   had the tone, I thought,          of one who is dreary of life, to whom it is all an ennui, a settled morbidity   of course that was the worst.          I rec'd a letter from Marvin to-day   from Peter Doyle yesterday   snowing here as I write   the baby fine,          fat, bright today, but raising his voice lustily just this moment   You got my letter three days since?         Walt           "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/duk.00671.html," Walt Whitman to Edward Dowden ,","Mar 4, 1876",0.803481572147,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey. U. S. America. March 4, 76                  Dear friend,        Yours of Feb. 6 with draft reach'd me which I responded to sending new edition ""Leaves of Grass"" and ""Two Rivulets,""          two or three days since, by mail, same address as this, which you ought to have rec'd now lately   sent postal card          briefly notifying you, & asking you to send me word (by postal card will do) immediately on their reception.        To-day comes your affectionate, hearty, valued letter of Feb. 16, all right, with enclosure, draft 12£. 10s.   all deeply appreciated   the letter good, cannot be better,          but, as always, the spirit the main thing   (altogether like some fresh, magnetic, friendly breath of breeze, 'way off there from the Irish Coast)   I wonder          if you can know how much good such things do me. I shall send the six sets (six ""Leaves"" and six ""Rivulets"")          by express, very soon, (probably by next Philadelphia steamer.) The extra copies of ""Memoranda of the War""          not being ready bound, at present, I will send by mail   six copies, before very long. (I hope the set above          mention'd I mailed you by last steamer, will have reach'd you before you get this.) I saw O'Grady's article          in the December ""Gentleman's"" & from my point of view, he dwells on what I like to have dwelt on. I was deeply pleased          with the article, & if I had O'Grady's address I would like to send him my photograph. I also read the Peter Bayne article.          (It was copied in full here at once, & circulated quite largely.) As I write this, I have not read Abraham Stoker's letter, but shall do so, & carefully. (The names shall be written in the Vols. as you mention.) I read with great zest          the account of the discussion at the ""Fortnightly""   I have learn'd to feel very thankful to those who attack & abuse & pervert me   that's perhaps (besides being good fun) the only way to bring out the splendid ardor & friendship of those,          my unknown friends, my best reward, art & part with me, in my pages, (for I have come to solace & perhaps flatter          myself that it is they indeed in them, as much as I, every bit.)        My condition physically is pretty much the same   no worse, at least not decidedly. I get out nearly every day, but not far,          & cannot walk from lameness   make much of the river here, the broad Delaware, crossing a great deal on the ferry,          full of life & fun to me   get down there by our horse cars, which run along near my door   get infinite kindness,          care, & assistance, from the employés on these boats & cars   My friend, next time you write say more about yourself,          family & Mrs. Dowden, to whom with yourself best love & regards     Walt Whitman        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/col.00005.html," Walt Whitman to Moncure D. Conway ,","Mar 19, 1876",0.805521555828,"  431 Stevens st cor West Camden N Jersey  U S America              March 19                             My dearest friend,        I did not know at all till supper with my sister-in-law last           evening that you had had a conversation with her about, & special         interest in, my pecuniary condition, &c. If I had known it at the time I should         have spoken about it, & freely, to you, by word of mouth   as that would         have been, & is, best in such things. When I came to Camden in '73, paralyzed, I felt, (& the feeling has since been         confirmed,) that I had retired for good from the active world, but that I might         linger along for years yet. I bought a pleasant little cheap lot here, paid for it,         & my plan was to put up a small three or four room house on it, in which I might         live plainly & comfortably the rest of my days   & that is still my plan         & desire. I had saved up quite a fund from my         earnings '65 to '72 as clerk in Washington   but they have now become about         exhausted by expenses of three years, (for I just take board & lodging here         & pay for them scrupulously same as in some temporary inn.) My great wish still         is to put up for myself this little three or four room home for the rest of my days,         independently, in a sort. I suppose it would cost 700 or 800 dollars. I have managed to get out complete my new edition both Vols. which I now begin to         sell & job myself   intend to continue doing so   (have somehow an idea         that I should then, in my own shanty, & for time to come, be able to live on the         moderate steady income of the sales of my own works   which           is most satisfactory to me)    I was in hopes to have seen you again before you sail'd   I was at Mrs Lesley's         again about three weeks since (to meet Miss Kate Hillard)   had a very pleasant afternoon with Mrs.         L & the rest    Things go on much the same with me in physical condition   I send you a paper         & some slips, same mail with this   I have written very lately to W M         Rossetti about my affairs, books, &c.  Walt Whitman        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00386.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Mar 23, 1876",0.806065551476,"  Camden              March 23   noon                               Yours rec'd   I am around, much the same   nothing very new, or different   the b[aby] doing well, grows well, hearty & bright   the rest well as usual   E[dward] recovered, & all right   my (new Edition) books out at last   (sent a set to N. M. J[ohnson] 506 12th st.)   comfortable to-day   write this in haste     W.W.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02827.html," Walt Whitman to William Michael Rossetti ,","Mar 31, 1876",0.807153542772,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey, U S America            March 31, '76                             My dear friend,        (Later than my letter dispatched last evening I wish merely to say) make cheques, orders or drafts payable          by Brown brothers, bankers, Philadelphia, U. S. A., corner Chestnut and Strawberry streets,          on my endorsement.         Walt Whitman        I am feeling quite comfortable to-day   I wish this information   the address above   conveyed to Robert Buchanan    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02828.html," Walt Whitman to Robert Buchanan ,","Apr 4, 1876",0.80769753842,"  431 Stevens st cor West Camden N Jersey U S America           April 4 '76                             Robert Buchanan   My dear friend           I merely want to say that I have read your letter in the London Daily News   all your three letters   & that I deeply appreciate them,          & do not hesitate to accept & respond to them in the same spirit in which they were surely impelled & written.                 May God bless you & yours,         Walt Whitman.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02829.html," Walt Whitman to Daniel Whittaker ,","Apr 4, 1876",0.80769753842,"  431 Stevens st Camden           April 4                    Dear Dan:        I take an interest in the boy in the office, Harry Stafford   I know his father & mother   There is a large family, very respectable American people   farmers, but only a hired farm   Mr. Stafford in weak health    I am anxious Harry should learn the printer's trade thoroughly   I want him to learn to set type          as fast as possible   want you to give him a chance (less of the mere errands &c)   There is a good deal really in the boy, if he has a chance.        Don't say any thing about this note to him   or in fact to any one   just tear it up, & keep the matter to yourself private.         Walt Whitman        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00455.html," Walt Whitman to John Swinton ,","Apr 12, 1876",0.808785529716,"  431 Stevens St., Camden, N Jersey           April 12                        Dear John           I have adopted your suggestion & written (same mail with this) to Wm. Swinton, Ward, Dr. Seeger, Stedman, [J.]         Miller, Mr. Jardine   I am entirely satisfied with your letter, (as with Buchanan's and Rossetti's action in London.) I am pleased well with what you write me in, & are doing by, your letter . . . Things go on with me much         the same as usual of late . . . When you see any thing notable or pungent about me or my affairs,         send it to me, as I neither see or hear much here.  Walt Whitman        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00442.html," Walt Whitman to John Burroughs ,","Apr 13, 1876",0.808921528628,"  April 13.                       Your letter in 'Tribune' today headed 'W. W.'s Poetry' is like an artillery and bayonet charge combined   is splendid, earnest, and terribly live   (Wonder the T      ever printed it)   Bad spell this forenoon   F. B. Sanborn visited me today   Am going out and will see if I can get the T      to send you   am not sure     W.W.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00454.html," Walt Whitman to Edmund Clarence Stedman ,","Apr 14, 1876",0.80905752754,   I send to-day by Adams express (address same as this card) my Two Vols. new edition . . . will try to write further next week.  Walt Whitman        
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02832.html," Walt Whitman to Edwin Stafford ,","Apr 19, 1876",0.8097375221,"  431 Stevens st Camden            April 19                             Dear Ed:        I send the little book I promised you. The little box of papetrie is for Debbie. My love to mother, father, & all the children.         Walt Whitman        I want Harry to come up Friday, & stay over till Sunday with me   I will not be down Saturday with you this week.          "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02834.html," Walt Whitman to William Michael Rossetti ,","Apr 23, 1876",0.810281517748,"  431 Stevens st Camden N Jersey U S America           April 23                            I have to-day sent by mail my new Vol. Two Rivulets to T. C. S. and E. J. S. M. (the Scotch l's) 1 Alva st, Edinburgh     W.W.        have not yet sent any express parcel to London    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00444.html," Walt Whitman to Edward Carpenter ,","Apr 25, 1876",0.810553515572,"  431 Stevens Street, Camden, New Jersey, U. S. A.            April 25th.                       I have to-day forwarded by mail in two parcels (same address as this card) my two volumes new edition, complete works. Please send me word (by postal card will do) when they reach you safely. I shall send the others soon.         W.W.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00445.html," Walt Whitman to John Swinton ,","May 5, 1876",0.811913504692,"  431 Stevens st Camden N Jersey            May 5 p m                        Dear friend,        Nothing very notable to write about, but I thought I would send you a line   This is one of my          comfortable days   good night's sleep last night   breakfast & dinner to-day with appetite   still get out          a little most every day as formerly   my book business, & a little writing & reading give me three hours          or so occupation (lazily) every day when I am not too ill   and then the baby, my brother's 6 mo's infant boy,          very fine & bright (of course) is an unfailing delight & diversion to me   the young one knows          me so well, & is never so happy as when I am tending him.        I adopted your suggestion of 3 or 4 weeks since   wrote with result as follows to          Wm Swinton   no answer to E C Stedman, sent an order at once enc'g: $30 to J Q A Ward, kind answer, will order presently to Dr Seeger, answer, order 1 set, & money enc. to Joaquin Miller, ordered a set & sent the money. to Mr. Jardine, answered a few days ago          I did not write either to G. A. Townsend, or to W C Church    have not sent the [incomplete]        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02831.html," Walt Whitman to John Swinton ,","May 6, 1876",0.812049503604,"  431 Stevens st. Camden N Jersey            May 6   noon                            I think I may be   nay must be   wrong in saying (Friday's letter) I wrote to Wm S[winton] with ""no answer"" result   I think I left writing him to the last, & then omitted it          by mistake. I will write to him in a day or two            W.W.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02836.html," Walt Whitman to Robert Buchanan ,","May 16, 1876",0.813409492724,"  May 16 '76                               Your two letters including the cheque for £25 reached me, for which accept deepest thanks. I have already written you my approval of your three communications in the L[ondon] D[aily] News & will [say] that in my opinion (& now with fullest deliberation reäffirming it) all the points assumed          as facts on which your letter of March 13 is grounded, are substantially true, & most of them are true          to the minutest particular   as far as could be stated in a one column letter.        Then let me quite definitely explain myself, about one or two things. I should not have instigated this English move,          & if I had been consulted, should have peremptorily stopt it   but now that it has started, & grown, and under the circumstances,          & by the person, & in the spirit, (& especially as I can & will give, to each generous donor, my book,         portrait, autograph, myself as it were)   I am determined to respond to it in the same spirit in which it has          risen   to accept most thankfully, cordially & unhesitatingly all that my friends feel to convey to me,          which determination I here deliberately express once for all. This you are at liberty to make known to all          who feel any interest in the matter.        The situation at present may be briefly & candidly told. I am, & have for three years during my paralysis,          been boarding here, with a relative, comfortable & nice enough, but steadily paying just the same as at an inn   and          the whole affair in precisely the same business spirit. My means would by this time have entirely given out,          but that have been temporarily replenished from sales of my new edition and as now by this most welcome present          & purchase   the £25 herein acknowledged.        Though without employment, means or income, you augur truly that I am not in what may be called pinching want   nor do I anticipate it.         My object I may say farther has lately been & still is to build a cheap little three or four room house on a little lot I own in a rural skirt          of this town   for a nook, where I can haul in & eke out in a sort of independent economy & comfort          & as satisfactorily as may be the rest of my years   for I may live several of them yet. To attain this,          would be quite a triumph, & I feel assured I could then live very nicely indeed on the income from my books.        I shall (as I see now) continue to be my own publisher & bookseller. Accept all subscriptions to the New Edition.          All will be supplied upon remittance. There are Two Volumes. Leaves of Grass, 384 pages, poems, $5, has two portraits.          Then Two Rivulets, poems & prose, (including ""Memoranda of the War"")         with photos, altogether 359 pages   also          $5. Each book has my autograph. The Two Volumes are my complete works, $10 the set.        I wish the particular address of each generous friend given, so as he or she can be reach'd by mail          or express   either with the autographic volume Two Rivulets, or a complete set of my works in Two Volumes,          with autograph & portraits, or some other of my books. It may be some while before the books arrive,          but they will arrive in time.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02835.html," Walt Whitman to John Swinton ,","May 31, 1876",0.815449476404,  431 Stevens st Camden N J           May 31                            Letter & enc: recd   Thanks   will write more fully soon   middling comfortable to-day     W.W.        
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02848.html," Walt Whitman to John Quincy Adams Ward ,","Jun 8, 1876",0.8165374677,"  431 Stevens st. Camden New Jersey           June 8 '76                    My dear Ward,        I have rec'd your friendly & generous subscription, $50, for 5 sets of my Books, & thank you heartily.         I send by express to-day prepaid, three Volumes   one set complete, & a          Leaves of Grass   with some other little Vols   slips, duplicate engravings of self   &          a special Photo. prepared by my own hands (? for your studio)    As the very limited first issue of my new edition is about to be exhausted, your other sets will have to be delayed until a         further issue, now in press, is ready.         Walt Whitman        Please send me word if the package arrives safely    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00446.html," Walt Whitman to Whitelaw Reid ,","Jul 7, 1876",0.820481436149,"  Camden, New Jersey           July 7th, 1876                        My dear Reid:        I send a piece for the paper, on Custer's death. If you can give me $10. for it, well and good   if not, not. If it comes in time,          get it in tonight, as earliness is everything.         Walt Whitman        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02839.html," Walt Whitman to Whitelaw Reid ,","Jul 18, 1876",0.821977424181,"  431 Stevens st. Camden N Jersey            July 18 '76                  My dear Reid,        The cheque has reached me $10. as pay for the little poem   Thanks   I enclose a ¶ for the ""Personals""   if thought proper.         Walt Whitman        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02849.html," Walt Whitman to Ainsworth R. Spofford ,","Jul 22, 1876",0.822521419829,"  Camden N Jersey           July 22 '76                    A R Spofford         Dear Sir        The editions of my Leaves of Grass, as within specified, are the only ones I have          published   & comprise all. (Two Rivulets,          the further Vol. just issued by me, I believe you have.)         Walt Whitman        I write on the letter, & return it so, for greater definiteness. "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02850.html," Walt Whitman to R. Spence Watson ,","Aug 30, 1876",0.827825377397,"  431 Stevens street Camden, N Jersey   U S A                            I have to-day forwarded by mail, to same address as this card, my Two Vols., L of G. and Two         Riv[ulets]--Please let me know, (by postal card will do) soon as they reach you safely.         Another set of same Two Vols. will be sent you soon.         W W        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02838.html," Walt Whitman to William Michael Rossetti ,","Sep 1, 1876",0.828097375221,"  431 Stevens St   Camden, N Jersey U S             America              Sept 1, '76                  My dear friend,        At last I am beginning to receive from the bindery the second batch of my late Two         Volume edition (I print 600 copies each Vol.) & send you a set in the new         binding, by this mail. I am now at last also supplying my English subscribers &         friends their Vols.   have sent their books, postpaid, by same mail with this to         several of them (see list appended)   & the rest will follow, until every one will be         sent   probably within the next ten days. I sent you the         Vol. for Mrs. Matthews, as the address was too indefinite   How about G. W.           Foote and J. T. Nettleship mention'd by you & giving         extracts, under date of May 23d? Their         names do not appear in the lists you have given me to send books to. The Athenaeum folks have sent me good pay for the little           poem,         but I have had nothing, & heard nothing from the Examiner.  I expected to have heard of Mrs. Gilchrist's arrival in The U.S. & to have had perhaps         ere this the great happiness of meeting her   but have heard nothing up to         date.  My letter of June 26, speaking of the situation, the delay in printing this second         batch, &c.   And my letter of July 3d acknowledging yours of June 20,         enclosing one £45-9-6, & list   you have.  I enclose herewith a later circular   will send you a dozen or so soon.  My dear little baby-nephew, & namesake, is dead, & buried by the side of my         mother, a bitter cup to me   Otherwise things are about the same with me as         before   & I am jogging along about the same.     "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02847.html," Walt Whitman to Scribner , Armstrong & Company ,","Sep 2, 1876",0.828233374133,"  431 Stevens st Camden New Jersey           Sept 2 '76                  Scribner, Armstrong & Co:           Dear Sirs,        I have forwarded you by mail to-day, in compliance with your order of August 9, two copies of Two Rivulets.         The price is $10, which please remit to me here.         Walt Whitman        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02837.html," Walt Whitman to Robert Buchanan ,","Sep 4, 1876",0.828505371957,"  Sept. 4 '76                            I forward you by Express to-day, same address as this letter the package of Books (see list on other side)   I wish Tennyson to have a set & have enclosed one, & would ask you to do me the favor of seeing that it is          safely transmitted to him. Notwithstanding the disclaimer in yours of April 28 I also send          a set for Richard Bentley in response to his kindness & generosity: (if any thing I know not of prevents          its reaching him, I wish you to keep it for yourself.)        Please see that the photograph is given to the School of Art, with my affectionate respects.        Trusting to your kindness to see that they are carefully sent to the subscribers.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00447.html," Walt Whitman to Moncure D. Conway ,","Sep 5, 1876",0.828641370869,"  Camden, New Jersey   U. S. America            Sept. 5th                       I send today, same address as this card my two volumes. Please notify me by postal card soon as they reach you safely.          Mrs. Taylor's and Mr. Ireland's sets have also been sent.         W. W.        Condition with me much the same.          "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02840.html," Walt Whitman to W. Brockie ,","Sep 7, 1876",0.828913368693,"  Camden, New Jersey   U S America           Sept 7                            I send you to-day by mail, to same address as this card, my Volume, Two Rivulets.        Please let me know, (by postal card will do) soon as it reaches you safely.         W Whitman        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02841.html," Walt Whitman to Philip Bourke Marston ,","Sep 7, 1876",0.828913368693,"  Camden, N Jersey   U S America            Sept 7                            I send you to-day by mail to same address as this card, my Volume, Two Rivulets.          Please let me know (by postal card will do) soon as it reaches you safely.         W. Whitman        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00448.html," Walt Whitman to Charles G. Oates ,","Sep 7, 1876",0.828913368693,"  Camden, New Jersey, U.S.A.           Sept 7th.                       I send you to-day by mail, to same address as this card, my volume, ""Two Rivulets"".        Please send me word, (by postal card, will do), soon as it reaches you safely.         W. Whitman.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02851.html," Walt Whitman to R. Spence Watson ,","Sep 9, 1876",0.829185366517,"  Camden, N Jersey   U S America           Sept 9                               I to-day send you by mail, a second set, Two Vols. of my Books. (One set went nine days ago)         Please notify me by postal card soon as you receive them.         W Whitman        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02842.html," Walt Whitman to an Unidentified Printer ,","Sep 23, 1876",0.831089351285,"  Camden           Sept 23                            I send over two copies of Two Rivulets   Can't you have the pictures properly pasted on the frontispieces          prepared for them (see front of the vols)   & send them over again by this boy,          & I will put my autograph on them     Walt Whitman        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/prc.00043.html," Walt Whitman to Damon Y. Kilgore ,","Sep 24, 1876",0.831225350197,"  431 Stevens street Camden New Jersey            Sept 24                    D Y Kilgore           Dear Sir        Send me word immediately when (day & hour) & where          the Paine bust affair is to come off. I see an announcement          in the paper that I am to read a poem on the occasion. I do not propose to read a poem   but I will promise          to be there, & speak just a little (say 10 minutes)   if I can be put on the early part of the program          (as waiting fags me out entirely)   & perhaps it would be necessary that I should be sent for in a carriage.          I would advise that you have some good music, & no long-winded address at all. (Couldn't you get some          good baritone singer to sing Paine's fine lively old song of ""the Liberty Tree""?)         Walt Whitman        best respects to Mrs Kilgore   love to Charley    "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/pml.00043.html," Walt Whitman to Helen and Abby H. Price ,","Oct 6, 1876",0.832857337141,"  Camden           Oct 10, 1876.                               Dear Helen, Dear Abby, & all           I am still jogging along here   still just holding on   sometimes (perhaps a quarter of the time) tolerably          fair   the rest, by the skin of my teeth   but upon the whole with a spirit of cheerfulness          & content with what comes that quite surprises myself.        My new edition 2 Vols is out & bound, & pictured & autographed.          I sell a few, mostly to England   gives me a little occupation   got your letter   write again   believe me, Helen and Abby dear,          I appreciate the letters, & most of all your persistent & faithful friendship.         Walt Whitman        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02843.html," Walt Whitman to H. S. Theobold ,","Oct 23, 1876",0.835169318645,"  Camden New Jersey U S America           Oct 23                            I send to-day to same address as this card my Vol. Two Rivulets   Please notify me,          (by postal card will do) soon as it reaches you safely     W W        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/med.00443.html," Walt Whitman to James Matlack Scovel ,","Nov 1, 1876",0.836393308854,  Dear S.:           It seems the bottle I left for you was broken by accident. Here is another. Don't mind the tart puckery taste.          W. W.        
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02844.html," Walt Whitman to Robert Buchanan ,","Nov 21, 1876",0.839113287094,"  431 Stevens street           Nov. 21 '76                             My dear R B        I sent you over two months ago (Sept 5), by express prepaid direct to same address as this letter, a package of some 17 or 18 vols          of my books, in wrappers, with names on them. As up to this date I have heard nothing of them from you,          and Messrs. Strahan have not acknowledged them either, I am a little uneasy about them. Have they arrived?         Have they been distributed?        I am jogging along much the same. My limbs still lamed from paralysis   but I get around yet   strength a little more reliable   spirits cheerful.        Your letters of April 18 and 28th were very comforting to me. I have read them several times   & they are before me now.        I wrote to you Sept. 4, announcing the Vols. That was my last. Did it reach you? Your letter of April 28th is the last I have rec'd from you.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00388.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen M. O'Connor ,","Nov 23, 1876",0.839385284918,  Camden New Jersey           Nov 23                            I continue pretty well for me this fall   All about as usual with all of us     W.W.        
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02845.html," Walt Whitman to Ellen Louise Chandler Moulton ,","Dec 11, 1876",0.841833265334,"  Camden New Jersey U S America                            I send to-day, to same address as this card, my Vol. L of G   Please notify me, (by postal card will do) soon as it reaches you safely.         W W        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/loc.02846.html," Walt Whitman to John Burroughs ,","Dec 20, 1876",0.843057255542,"  431 Stevens st Camden N J           Dec 20                            Glad to hear from you   as by your card of 17th just rec'd. Very glad to hear of S[ula] having got home          ""well & hearty""   Sheets you speak of, not yet come to hand.        I am better this winter, seems almost decidedly   banged bad enough yet, but the bad deathly spells          are very rare, (almost unknown) the last three months   I want to go to N Y city in January   to J H          Johnstons (in 10th street)   his jewelry store is at 150 Bowery, cor Broome   call & see him   quite a          lull in my book selling, & in my affairs, & literary doings, generally     W W        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00375.html," 2  , 8 March","or 1874, 1875",1.0,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden.           March 8.                            Card rec'd   A bad, bad week   head troubles   hope to send better acc'ts, next time     WW        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00376.html," Postcard from Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle , 30 July","or 1874, 1875",1.0,"  431 Stevens. / Camden, / N. Jersey.           July 30.                            Getting along much the same   feeling pretty fair to-day. Yours rec'd.         W. W.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00377.html," Postcard from Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle , 18 September","or 1874, 1875",1.0,"  431 Stevens. Camden, N.J.           Sept. 18.                            Nothing special or new   day after day goes on with me, just about the same     WW        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00378.html," Postcard from Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle , 25 September","or 1874, 1875",1.0,  431 Stevens St. Camden N. Jersey           Sept. 25.                            About the same sort of a week     WW        
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00379.html," Postcard from Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle , 23 October","or 1874, 1875",1.0,  431 Stevens st. Cor West Camden N. Jersey/           Oct. 23.                            Had a very bad fall & shock about 11 days ago   laid me up a week or more   but am around again now   not much different now   bad spells enough     WW        
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00380.html," Postcard from Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle , 28 October","or 1874, 1875",1.0,"  431 Stevens st. Cor West. Camden, N.J.           Oct. 28.                            Every thing continues favorable   full as good as any time yet   perhaps rather better than any yet   Letter & paper rec'd.         W. W.        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/reconstruction/tei/nyp.00381.html," Postcard from Walt Whitman to Peter Doyle , 16 December","or 1874, 1875",1.0,"  431 Stevens st. cor West. Camden, N. Jersey.           Dec. 16   3 p.m.                            I am very decidedly better   very cold here, but bright & pleasant   I go out in it & enjoy it muchly   am now going out on a prowl till dusk     W W        "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00806.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to an Unidentified Correspondent , ( ? ) . ( ? ) . 1863 (",") 0, 1",n/a," . . . turn   some I have to visit every day or evening (there are husbands & young lads, of good farmers' families &c, brought up at home, never having left), while they are in critical state, pet them, cheer them, caress them, give them some trifle. I always carry a stout double-pocket haversack, filled with things   also large pockets in my coat &c   I have articles of many kinds, I have learnt what is appropriate   I generally carry a bottle of wine   I buy oranges by the box, & fill my pockets with them before going into a ward, they are very refreshing to feverish men this weather   I have nice preserved peaches or something of the jelly sort   to many I give little sums of money   the soldiers very largely come up here without one cent   every day I find cases proper for small gifts of money, & where it is indeed more blest to give, than the good it can do them. (You hear north there quite too much of the rum drinking, rowdyism &c. & thieving of the soldiers   in general, that is confined to the foreign regiments, & I must say to the Philadelphia & N. Y. City regiments   the soldiers from the States, from the country, especially the West & from New England and the country parts of N. Y. & Penn, are noblest specimens of young men, well brought up, intelligent, singularly free from intemperance &c   you ought to see them as I have for the last five months.) "
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/loc.00878.html," Letter from George Wood to Walt Whitman , [ 15 January","] 1863, 1",n/a,  Thursday  Mr dear Sir You sometimes find a poor soldier whom a small sum would relieve and I beg you will distribute these pieces of paper as you shall see best on your visits to the Hospital. [illegible]  G Wood Mr W: Whitman  
http://www.whitmanarchive.org/biography/correspondence/cw/tei/nyp.00211.html," Letter from Walt Whitman to Louisa Van Velsor Whitman , 16 October 1866 (",") 0, 1",n/a,"  ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington,  Oct. 16, 1862  Dearest mother, I have not heard any thing from you the last week, but I hope you are well & every thing goes right. I sent you a letter last Tuesday, as usual. I suppose you have got your copy of the new book   I feel satisfied with the looks of it   it might be better, & handsomer paper, &c   but I am glad it turns out as good as it is   for, in making a book, you can't be certain how it is going to look, till it is all completed. Then I feel sure it tells the meaning better than any of the former editions   My enemies, & those who are determined to find fault, will of course still do so   But I feel that the book proves itself to any fair person   & will have a fair chance now, & go ahead. But the best thing is, it is done   & I shant worry myself any more with fixing & revising it    I have sent a copy to Han   & wrote her a letter   I am feeling first rate in health   I have a good place to eat   get good victuals & plenty of 'em   After the biggest rain-storm I ever knew, we have splendid weather here just now. In the office here, every thing goes on the same as usual. I like Mr. Stanbery   Ashton, the Assistant, will probably remain here this winter   I hope Jeff won't neglect to vote   George of course will vote   Love to Mat   Well good bye, dear mother, till next time. Walt. "
635299200.0
